Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? You Asked: How to add a subwooofer to Apple Homepods, Hisense UX review question By Caleb Denison Close You’ve got questions, I’ve got answers! This is the third installment of our series where I tackle the excellent questions from the Digital Trends community. On this episode of You Asked: Will I review the Hisense UX TV? Why don’t we test TV temperature? Do I really just want to be Linus or Marques? Subwoofers for Apple Homepods, and much more.
Hisense UX TV temperatures I’m just Caleb Homepods subs Room EQ Optical audio accessibility options Let’s dive in.
Hisense UX Zeke Jones / Digital Trends @AbiolaOlajide-ue5hh asks: “When are you going to review the UX Hisense?” When this question was originally posted, my answer would have been “possibly never.” That’s because when last I spoke to Hisense, it didn’t think it was going to be able to send out review samples. So, I suggested Hisense consider flying reviewers in for an event where everyone could get a crack at measuring and evaluating the TV. I didn’t hear back about that, so I was beginning to think maybe I wouldn’t get the chance to review this TV.
You Asked: Dolby Atmos and EDID, minimalist soundbars, and HDMI 2.1 You Asked: streaming inequality, Dragon showdown, and holy grail TVs You Asked: Soundbars vs. receivers, TVs with no speakers, and car stereos But, just a few days ago, I learned that a Hisense UX is making its way here, and I could not be more excited. So, to answer your question — give me a couple of weeks! We have a lot of TVs here to review, but that one is a priority, so I’ll get to it ASAP.
TV temperatures Riley Young / Digital Trends Next up, @AP-hn8wd asks: Hi, Caleb! With TVs getting larger, why don’t TV reviewers start reviewing heat output (temperature-wise) on a TV? I’ve heard some owners of certain TVs 65 inches and larger [say the TVs] make their living rooms warm, especially during the summer (could be smaller living rooms in apartments). Even smaller TVs of 55 inches or smaller can warm a small bedroom after an hour or so when gaming.
Well, I’m betting you were asking why don’t TV reviewers test a TV’s heat output rhetorically. But just in case you really were wondering why it isn’t commonly done, my guess would be it’s because it’s more work than you might think — at least to get things going — and because it would be tough to make the results meaningful. But I’m up to the challenge, and I’m willing to give it a try. And besides that, I’ve been looking for just one more reason to get a digital laser infrared thermometer gun , and you just gave it to me, so thank you! The difficulty in getting this set up is that I’ll need to create some testing parameters so that we can get reliable results. And from there, we need a series of controls. So, off the top of my head, I’m thinking we’ll want to leave the TV on for, say, an hour, playing a predetermined mix of content that we put on every TV to make sure the stress we put on each TV is consistent. We have to make sure that the temperature in the room is always the same because heat buildup could exponentially increase based on how warm a room is to begin with. And, I think we can’t test while the AC or heater is blowing, or too soon after the AC/heater has been on, so we’ll want to standardize how long after the HVAC has shut off that we conduct the test. Then we need to measure both the front and the back of the TV, and I suppose take an average from those two readings. Complicating matters, I’d have to figure out where on the back of the TV to take a reading, because it would be unfair to measure right behind the power supply on one TV and not on another.
See? There’s a lot to it. But let’s say we figure that all out. How do we make the results meaningful? I don’t have the answer to that — yet.
I test mostly 65-inch TVs, so I can just make a rule that I only measure the temperature of 65-inch TVs since I only get 77-, 85-, and 90-plus-inch TVs occasionally and couldn’t really build up enough data on those large sizes to make comparisons such that I could conclude that one TV runs hot and another runs cooler. My other concern is that I don’t know how knowing hot a 65-inch variant of a certain model gets would tell us anything about how hot a 55-inch version might get. Or an 85-inch version. You might think it is reasonable to suspect a smaller TV would not get quite as hot, while a larger TV would get hotter. But I don’t have any data to prove that the heat generation is going to be predictably linear.
It’s just not fair for me to point and shoot a temperature gun at a TV and say, “It’s this hot,” without putting that into context, and to have context, I need a big pool of data. But, I can’t get that data unless I start collecting, so … I promise you this: I’ll get that temperature gun because — fun! And I’ll look into it. Check in with me in about … three months, and I’ll let you know where I’m at. Does that seem fair? Thanks for the question and suggestion! I’m just Caleb Chris Hagan / Digital Trends @channelmames comments: You want to be Linus or Marques sooooooooo bad.
No. Nope. Not going anywhere near that one right now. Whoooo, no.
Homepods subs Zeke Jones / Digital Trends @augustya7543 asks: I am looking for a subwoofer to use with my OG Homepods to have more bass. Which is the subwoofer that you can suggest that has a tiny footprint and is compact and portable? To the best of my understanding, there is no way to add a subwoofer to Apple HomePods speakers , either the OG version or the latest gen. So if you really need more bass in your life — and who doesn’t? — then I think you should look at replacing the HomePods with something else or adding a system that satisfies your music/movie listening desires. I’m sorry I don’t have better news for you.
Room EQ Dirac @patrickmoodley6619 wrote: What are your thoughts on the various Room EQs in AVRs? Comparison between Dirac, Audessey, Ypao. Is it all much of a muchness or is there some benefit in one over the other? I am super glad you asked this question, but I’m afraid I don’t have a super helpful answer for you … yet. I personally think one of the most admirable things someone can do as a reviewer is admit when they don’t have adequate information to make a call or share an opinion on something. And that’s where I’m at with Room EQ right now. I haven’t tested very many AVRs lately, and certainly not enough of them to make comparisons. But, I intend to change that. Now that I have a new studio space, I can leave a speaker system set up all the time and just swap in AVRs as well as amplifiers, and dig into the audio space a little more. So hopefully, I’ll be able to weigh in on the state of Auto-EQ programs soon.
I will say this, though: I have spent a lot of time poo-pooing auto setup wizards and room EQ programs because when I did work with AVRs a lot, I found that they did more harm than good when it came to the sound I got from them. I recall them doing a good job of determining speaker distance, so they were good at time alignment, but I was never pleased with the crossover points they picked for each speaker. I also didn’t like the way the EQ sounded.
I have this theory — not the most popular one — that trying to fix what your room does to your speakers’ sound by changing the sound of the speaker is just not a great way to go about doing things. I understand the principle, I just haven’t enjoyed the results — in the past. It’s time to test things again. I hear Dirac can do some good stuff and I want to hear it for myself.
Optical audio accessibility options TCL / TCL Tony Wagner says: OK, one thing I find very annoying is Optical outputs on TVs that stop working when anything is connected to ARC or eARC. On the Hisense 75U8H, we use the optical to feed the transmitter for hearing aids, but have to remove the connection to the receiver in order to get the hearing aids to work.
The ideal would be for the optical to always output unless the mute is on. I know those of us with disabilities get ignored a lot, but maybe if things like this were mentioned more, something would happen. I talked to Hisense tech support and was given the brush-off. Do any of the TVs you have reviewed have working Optical outputs? So, first of all, Tony, I agree that folks with disabilities deserve some urgency around solutions that help them enjoy the tech they use. And I’m eager to do whatever I can to help that cause.
I have not done much testing to determine which TVs automatically switch audio output to ARC or eARC when connected, but I suspect it is most, if not all, of them, and that probably has to do more with how the chipsets in these TVs are programmed than how a brand like Hisense uses them.
Thanks to Vincent Teoh at HDTVtest , we know that Hisense uses Pentonic SOCs in at least some of its TVs. I suspect that it is part of that system on a chip that causes the optical audio output to get disabled when there is an eARC connection. But I also think that it shouldn’t be too hard to adjust the audio output settings so that there is a default audio output, be that user-selectable, where you say always use optical unless you change it, or last-used, where the last selected audio output is used until you change it. However, the issue of not being able to output to both optical and HDMI may be an inherent limitation. By that I mean, the capabilities of HDMI and optical are different — HDMI supports audio codecs that optical doesn’t, and the audio decoder in the TV needs to adjust depending on what is connected, so I’m not sure we’ll ever see a TV that outputs two different audio streams to both optical and HDMI at the same time.
I do have a suggestion for you to try, though. Consider connecting your hearing aid transceiver to the optical output on your AV receiver, if it has one. It’s possible that the AV receiver is able to transcode audio coming in via HDMI and route it out the optical connection, and if it does, that means you could just turn on the receiver and mute it when you only want to use the hearing aids. It does mean you would have to turn on the receiver pretty much any time you watch TV, though. That’s unless you’re just going to use the TV speakers. I don’t know if that is going to work — there could be copy protection that will prevent it. It’s worth a shot, though.
Editors' Recommendations You Asked 10: picture calibration, best budget buys, and premium small screens You Asked: plasma TV replacements, cheap OLEDs, and Sharp’s return You Asked: Sonos setups, 5,000 nits, and dumb TVs You Asked: Why we don’t buy the TVs we review You Asked: Why TVs with same model numbers have different specs Features You Asked Audio / Video You’ve got questions, I’ve got answers.
This is our first installment of a new series we’re calling “You Asked” because, well, many of you have asked me a lot of questions. And while I do my best to reply to them -- in our YouTube comments, Instagram DMs, Twitter or … X or whatever it’s called, even via email -- there is just not enough time in the day, week, month, year, decade, or what’s left of my lifetime to get to all of them.
Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
