Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Audio / Video Features You Asked: Why TVs with same model numbers have different specs By Caleb Denison Close You’ve got more questions, I’ve got more answers. This is the second installment in a series that lets me answer some of the burning questions we get from the Digital Trends community. You all come up with great questions and we love them — keep them coming! Overseas TVs Same model, different specs AMD Zen 4, where are you? TV calibration Overseas TVs Our first question today comes from @dragosmoldovan990 who wrote: I’m in Europe, and the AV landscape is kinda different here. Any chance for you to get a look at Philips OLED TVs, for instance? I know they are not available in the States but we simply have no good information sources here.
I wanted to answer this question because I know that Philips TVs and Panasonic TVs in particular are of high interest because they tend to be high performers, and I know a lot of folks would like to see how I would rank them against all the TVs we do review. Unfortunately, as many of you know, Panasonic and Philips TVs — at least the premium Philips TVs available in the U.K. and Europe — are not available in the U.S. There was a time when I was asking the U.K. PR teams if they might consider sending those TVs for me. But as you can imagine, that’s of significant expense to them, and they can see that the majority of our audience is in the U.S., so it’s hard for them to justify that expense. Likewise, it would be impossible for me to justify the expense of importing those TVs so I could review them here. The cost would be too substantial.
You Asked: Dolby Atmos and EDID, minimalist soundbars, and HDMI 2.1 You Asked: streaming inequality, Dragon showdown, and holy grail TVs You Asked: Soundbars vs. receivers, TVs with no speakers, and car stereos And that goes for TVs in other markets, too, like Australia and India, where I know a lot of you live. Now, if we could arrange for me to travel to those places for a week and I did reviews in those regions … hmm, that might be something! But, that would have to be a viewer or brand-sponsored thing, cuz I don’t think I can convince Digital Trends to do it.
I will say, though, that I’m thinking of going back to IFA in Berlin because I miss checking out the AV scene in at least part of Europe because I know it is a bit different there, and I like it! Same model, different specs Next up is another international/regional question and, folks, I get this one all the time.
 @joshuamansill9394 wrote: You’ve talked about doing a video before on this, but why do Hisense and TCL release very different TVs with the same/very similar model number in the U.S. vs. Europe vs. Oceania? You’re right, I have talked about doing a video on this, and I’m still planning on doing it. I’m using your question as an opportunity to ask folks to be a little patient with me. As you may have seen , we’re in the middle of moving to a new studio, so I have had to put some investigating on hold. I will give you a little bit of a nugget: The Hisense U8 and U7 series TVs that we get in the U.S. are so good because reviewers like me have been on Hisense about improving this, tweaking that, and the powers that be — among them, Hisense USA president David Gold — pressed to get those improvements for U.S. models, betting that getting good reviews would help sell the TVs. And that bet paid off. The story is similar for TCL, which got amazing traction on the early 6-series TVs among reviewers and they leaned into that hard and got sales success from it, so they leaned in even harder.
Now, I can understand if the numbers show that those moves seem to work for the U.S. market, but don’t necessarily provide a return on investment in other regions — I don’t know that is the case, but I throw that theory out there because, while I could understand that, I do not understand why you would use the same model number in different regions but not offer the same performance for that model number. That part is the bit I have not gotten to the bottom of yet, and I’m just a couple of phone calls away from getting the answers I need. So stay tuned, I will cover that this year. Probably in October, honestly. Hold me to it! AMD Zen 4, where are you? This next one is not for me, but I’m going to get the answer.
@lordtardar4639 asked: Just WHAT is going on with AMD in the laptop sector and why aren’t we seeing any Zen 4-based laptops (not to be confused with Zen 3 and Zen 3+ processers that were just rebranded to 7XXX series) halfway through the year except in just a handful of mainly gaming laptops ? I do not know, but I know someone who does! So I asked senior staff writer Jacob Roach , who you have seen plenty of times on the channel and his first response was, “Oh, this is a whole thing.” Computex Roach elaborated, “If you’re unfamiliar, AMD completely changed its naming scheme for its mobile processors with Ryzen 7000. Now, the architecture it uses is noted by the third number in the product. For example, a theoretical Ryzen 5 7510 would be using the Zen 1 architecture, despite the fact that it comes from the Ryzen 7000 series (which, for the record, is supposed to use Zen 4 ). That first number that most people associate with the generation of the processor now refers to the year it was released. It’s confusing, and even more confusing when you consider this only applies to mobile processors.
“To answer your question more directly, it’s hard to say exactly why we haven’t seen more Zen 4 processors in non- gaming laptops.
 There are a few like the Acer Swift Edge 16 and Asus Zenbook S 13 , both with the Ryzen 7 7840U, but most non- gaming laptops are stuck on Zen 3. I suspect this just comes down to market share and positioning. AMD is focusing its most powerful, newest hotness on the area where it has more dominance — gaming laptops.
 Intel still holds the vast majority of the laptop market outside of gaming, and the laptop market overall, so we may not see a ton of Zen 4 chips outside of gaming laptops.
 Definitely keep an eye out for the rest of the year, though. Now that all the flagship chips are out, AMD has been slowly working its way down to the more power-efficient chips in its lineup.” Wow. Glad I asked Jacob about that one. Thanks, Jake for coming through.
TV calibration OK, two more questions, both on the same topic. @fandibus asks: Do you do professional calibrations? I’m in Oregon and would like my TV calibrated.
The short answer is no, I do not do professional calibrations, I’m sorry. I wish I could help you out. The reasons I don’t do professional calibrations deserve a deeper explanation. But the reason I don’t do professional calibrations boils down to time and money. I’m slammed all week long, and on the weekends, I’m completely booked with gigs — I’m also a professional trumpet player, for those who didn’t know. But in addition to the lack of time, there’s a significant cost involved with the equipment needed for a professional calibration and while Digital Trends owns the equipment I need to do my job as a reviewer, I do not own the equipment needed for me to do my own calibration business.
This question leads us nicely to the next one which comes from, well, a whole of people.
Can you recommend a TV calibrator in my area? I do not personally have a database of professional calibrators across the U.S. – but I’m thinking of creating one, honestly. What I suggest you do is go to the Imaging Science Foundation website and click on the Dealers tab. There you can put in your city and state and find “dealers” in your area that probably offer calibration services. Honestly, I wish there was a slightly more refined way of finding ISF-certified calibrators across the U.S., and maybe I’ll work with the ISF to retool their site to make it a little easier. But that’s where I would start. You can also try going to the AVS forum and posting a request for help finding a calibrator in your area.
Editors' Recommendations You Asked 10: picture calibration, best budget buys, and premium small screens You Asked: plasma TV replacements, cheap OLEDs, and Sharp’s return You Asked: Sonos setups, 5,000 nits, and dumb TVs You Asked: Why we don’t buy the TVs we review You Asked: How to add a subwooofer to Apple Homepods, Hisense UX review question Computing Features You Asked Audio / Video You’ve got questions, I’ve got answers.
This is our first installment of a new series we’re calling “You Asked” because, well, many of you have asked me a lot of questions. And while I do my best to reply to them -- in our YouTube comments, Instagram DMs, Twitter or … X or whatever it’s called, even via email -- there is just not enough time in the day, week, month, year, decade, or what’s left of my lifetime to get to all of them.
Audio / Video The news that YouTube TV — the largest streaming provider of live TV in the U.S. with more than 5 million subscribers — is getting more expensive is neither welcome nor surprising. It's just the latest price increase among multi-platform video distributors, which is industry parlance for services like YTTV, Hulu With Live TV, FuboTV, Sling TV, and DirecTV Stream. And prices for four of those five providers are dangerously close to what you'd pay for traditional cable.
But in a slightly strange turn of events, the monthly bill for some YouTube TV subscribers — myself included — actually will go down slightly starting in April, when the new rates take effect.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
