Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features You Asked: best TVs for bright rooms, when to use eARC, and more By Caleb Denison Close You’ve got questions, I’ve got answers.
Motion smoothing and processing eARC connections Best TVs for bright rooms TV brand reliability Dolby Vision vs. HDR10 Aperion Audio Receiver passthrough and picture quality This is our first installment of a new series we’re calling “You Asked” because, well, many of you have asked me a lot of questions. And while I do my best to reply to them — in our YouTube comments , Instagram DMs, Twitter or … X or whatever it’s called, even via email — there is just not enough time in the day, week, month, year, decade, or what’s left of my lifetime to get to all of them.
The thing is, your questions are really good and pretty commonly asked as well, so I want to make space to answer them for you. Over the next several installments, I’ll try to cover some of the topics I get asked the most and will be the most helpful to you.
Motion smoothing and processing Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Edward Lacombe (@elacombe75) asked: Hi Caleb, I’m pretty sensitive to motion artifacts on TVs and have always been driven to Sony in the past for this reason. However, these days I almost always stream in HD from Hulu (live tv), or from Disney+, Netflix, Amazon, etc. — no cable and no YouTube at all. Is video processing essentially a nonissue in this case? For purely HD streaming content, will the QM8 (for example) be just as good as a Sony? Well, the short answer is no: The TCL QM8 will not be just as good as a Sony in that example. Lacombe mentions that he almost always streams in HD — and I imagine also streaming in 4K from some places and getting HDR, too.
But the higher resolution of those streams is only one element of picture quality for a TV’s processor. The issue with all streaming services, not just YouTube, is that the signal is compressed , and there will be missing information. This becomes most evident with large swaths of color on the screen; you’ll notice color banding when going from, say, a darker shade of green to a lighter one. The better the processing, the less color banding you will get.
Also, how a TV decides to handle brightness, how clean the image looks in general, there are a ton of other things the processor does to make even what seems like a high-quality source look its best. If all you ever watched was 4K Blu-rays, the processing between two TVs would still make a difference. It wouldn’t be as apparent, perhaps, but when it comes to streaming, take all the help you can get.
eARC connections Digital Trends Question 2 came from @shukla91: I was wondering if it’s better to plug my HDMI devices directly into my TV or my receiver if I’m using an eARC connection, and what are the pros/cons of doing either one? Does it make a difference for gamers? Great question! I get asked this one a lot. Purely for the sake of convenience, I’ll usually recommend folks connect everything to their TVs, and then run ARC or eARC back to their receiver or soundbar. This way, you are definitely going to get the least amount of lag for game consoles — even if it is a minimal improvement — and you have the convenience of everything that’s on the TV screen having audio come out of your audio device, whether it is built-in streaming services or some other device you’ve connected.
There are some exceptions though. If your TV and receiver don’t both support eARC, then it may not support the best available audio signals. For instance, Dolby Atmos would be delivered via compressed and slightly lossy Dolby Digital Plus versus lossless Dolby True HD — and I do think you can hear the difference. Also, if you have more devices than you have HDMI inputs, it may make more sense to use your AV receiver or preamp/processor as the hub. Also, there’s this issue where sometimes ARC just won’t work.
With that said, only recently have AV receivers started supporting HDMI 2.1 features, and they have been buggy as they’ve rolled out. That’s another reason I generally suggest using your TV’s inputs and outputting eARC to your audio device if you’re using next-gen consoles. Hope that helps! Best TVs for bright rooms Chris Hagan / Digital Trends Question 3 comes from @ayarpaton.
If you were moving to a new place, where you need a nice TV for the living room with plenty of windows/light, would you go for an expensive brand TV or something along the lines of Hisense’s high-end TVs? What panel type, brightness, HDR tech, and HDMI tech would you prefer for said TV? OK, so I think I understand when you mention an “expensive brand TV” versus something like the higher-end Hisense, and we can toss TCL and Vizio in there, too. You’re contrasting those brands against a Sony, LG, or Samsung I reckon. And then the other component of your question is around dealing with a living room with plenty of windows and light coming in.
I’ll address the second part first by saying that I feel like there’s this misnomer floating around that super-bright TVs will prevent you from a washed-out picture and reflections caused by lots of bright light coming into a room. Ultra-bright TVs will produce a better-looking picture in bright rooms than non-ultra-bright TVs. But the picture will always be a little washed-out, and reflections will always be there, no matter how good the antiglare treatment might be.
With that said, I think that there is an advantage to going with one of the more expensive brands when battling a bright room since they tend to have the best anti-glare technology. Samsung and Sony, in particular, have models that cut glare pretty well. But when it comes to raw brightness power? Frankly, I’ll put one of the best TVs from Hisense or TCL, or one of Vizio’s top models, against Samsung and Sony any day. The real difference in pricing comes in other picture performance areas, as well as quality control. And I try to cover that stuff in the TV reviews.
TV brand reliability Digital Trends Our next question came from @devinwaggoner702.
Could you address the reliability of the various TV brands? I recently heard a podcast that said LG TVs are the brand that is most commonly returned at Best Buy.
First, let me say that it is hard for me to report on reliability as a reviewer because I so rarely get to test TVs for many years. I do keep in touch with friends and family to see how their TV brands and models are doing year after year. But that’s a small sample size, so any conclusions I draw would be too anecdotal. I do understand that reliability is important, and I feel like the best indicator for whether there is a widespread problem with a specific brand or a specific model is in discussion forums, which are a pain to comb through, but search engines can usually find you the info you’re looking for if you search the right way. Like, is the Brand X Model Y TV reliable? You’re likely to find out if there’s a whole group talking about how tons of them failed.
But be wary of statements like “this brand is most commonly returned at Best Buy.” First off, find out where that data came from and who is reporting it. If some dude says, “Yeah, I heard that” or “This guy I know that works at Best Buy said …,” immediately be skeptical. To poke holes in the statement, I’d want to know which were the top three models of LG TVs that were getting returned. I bet it wasn’t their OLEDs.
 And were those three models low-cost budget TVs? Or were they maybe the higher-end QNED TVs? And why were they returned? Was it because they broke within the return window, or did maybe folks decide they didn’t like WebOS or couldn’t figure out how to turn off the motion smoothing? So – I can’t address the reliability of the TV brands unless I have firsthand experience with multiple failures of retail TVs, and even that would be isolated info. I think the court of public opinion will be the best judge on reliability. You need a large sample size to get meaningful data, and I just can’t do that.
Dolby Vision vs. HDR10 Digital Trends @zakstoiber1496 wrote: I want to see the Dolby Vision versus HDR10 comparison between competitor TVs like the S95c versus G3 or A95L (once it’s released).
Well, it’s not technically a question, but I’m sure glad that comment was posted because I think a lot of folks feel the same way, and that includes me! I plan to do Dolby Vision in the Sony A95L versus HDR 10+ in the Samsung S95C, using the same panel technology, and balancing out as many other performance factors as possible. I think that’s the best way to do it. And you know what, I think we’re not going to see a ton of differences, and that the conversation is going to end up being about how the folks doing the HDR mastering of movies and TV shows are not taking enough advantage of Dolby Vision’s capabilities — and that’s the reason we’re not seeing much difference. But I’m ready to be surprised, and will definitely go in with an open mind. That is coming. But first, I have to get a Sony A95L , and I’m waiting just like everyone else. Also, growing impatient, but I digress.
Aperion Audio Digital Trends The next one is just a fun one for me personally. @chrisbworth wrote: So, I use Aperion-powered Bluetooth speakers as my TV speakers. Anyway, I recently learned you used to work with them. Do you avoid reviewing their products because they don’t often put out anything new, or do you view reviewing them as a conflict of interest? Haha. or would it be awkward because you know you like other speakers better? Well, I’m super curious to know how Chris learned that, not that it is a secret. Yes, I used to work at Aperion Audio, and that was a great time. I learned a lot there about audio on both the electronics and speakers side. So, I have reviewed Aperion products on the channel and will continue to do so as I can.
I do have to say that boutique speaker brands like Aperion are super fun and I like to do them from time to time, but I am SO busy with TVs that I have to pick my battles with speakers, and that’s why you’ll see me reviewing more commercial brands with bigger footprints like Sonos or Klipsch, KEF, B&W, Polk, Definitive Technology, etc. And, yes, at first, I did feel like there may be a conflict of interest there, but honestly, I got over that pretty quickly. And especially now, I mean, I left Aperion in 2008, so with 15 years of distance, there is no conflict there.
Receiver passthrough and picture quality Digital Trends @2443Bobby asked: My receiver is about seven years old. Would upgrading to a current model have any impact on picture quality when using passthrough? This question is a little tricky, but I’m going to do the best I can here. The term passthrough means the signal simply passes through, unaltered from the source. So if you’re actually using passthrough, then there should be no difference from one receiver to another except when it comes to certain combinations of resolution, HDR type, and, most importantly, chroma subsampling, which, at its most basic, is color information. Most 4K HDR signals can be passed through HDMI 2.0 and earlier, which maxes out at 18Gbps, but there are a few setups where you might actually need the higher bandwidth of HDMI 2.1. If you wanted 4K Dolby Vision with 10-bit or 12-bit color, I believe you would need HDMI 2.1 in your receiver to pass that along.
Here’s the more important thing I want everyone to take away: From your Blu-ray player to your streaming box to your AV receiver or even preamp/processor, it is a very, very rare case in which any of those devices would have a better video processor than what’s built into your TV. There are very rare exceptions to that – and if you know better, then you know enough not to need the answer to this question. But, your AV receiver doesn’t need to be doing anything with the video signal — it should just pass it along. In fact, I think it’s worth going into your AV receiver and turning video processing off if it is turned on.
Editors' Recommendations You Asked: Dolby Atmos and EDID, minimalist soundbars, and HDMI 2.1 Features You Asked Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Audio / Video If a 65-inch TV is the perfect size for your home theater setup upgrade according to our guide on what size TV to buy, then you shouldn't miss the discounts that are available in this year's Black Friday deals. There are offers involving some of the best TV brands, including LG, Samsung, and Sony, ranging from affordable choices to top-of-the-line models that require a hefty investment. Sony TV Black Friday deals have some cheaper 65-inch options, and Samsung TV Black Friday deals have some of the more expensive ones (think The Frame). Best Buy Black Friday TV deals and Amazon Black Friday deals cover the gamut, so check them out if brand and size aren't too important. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though -- we're not sure how much stock retailers have available for these 65-inch TVs for the shopping holiday, so if you don't want to miss out, you'll need to complete your transaction as soon as possible.
For other sizes, browse the best 32-inch TV Black Friday deals, 55-inch TV Black Friday deals 70-inch TV Black Friday deals and 75-inch TV Black Friday deals.
The best 65-inch TV Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
