Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features You Asked: Why we don’t buy the TVs we review By Caleb Denison Close This is You Asked, a series in which I answer frequently asked questions to help you live your best tech life, and to connect our Digital Trends readership. Sometimes that means going behind the scenes, talking shop, or sharing personal anecdotes.
Logistics Time and cost Liability Access Feasibility matters This week, I’m excited to answer one of the most frequently asked questions I’ve gotten over the 13 years or so I’ve been reviewing tech. I’m not crediting any one person for this question; it’s just the most frequently asked question I get, so I figured I would answer it for everyone. That question usually goes something like: Why don’t you buy the TVs you review instead of accepting review samples from TV brands ? And then there’s usually a list of proposed advantages to buying the TVs we review at retail, like avoiding golden samples, getting a better feel for what the average consumer deals with, etc.
You Asked: Dolby Atmos and EDID, minimalist soundbars, and HDMI 2.1 You Asked: streaming inequality, Dragon showdown, and holy grail TVs Sony Bravia X95L mini-LED vs. TCL QM8 QLED: The best LCD TV and the one you should buy The reasons we don’t buy the TVs we review — or, for that matter, most of the products we review — are multitudinous. There are so many, in fact, that I had to create an outline so I could present them in some coherent manner. I’ve done the best I can in that regard, and to that end, I can break things down into a few categories.
Logistics Cost and time Liability Access Miscellaneous matters of feasibility I’m especially fond of that last one.
Logistics We’ll start with logistics. And under logistics, we have actual logistics — that’s the shipping and receiving involved — plus storage and insurance.
TVs are big. And we have limited space to store TVs. Realistically, our studio space can handle, at most, three TVs and their boxes at a time. You may be wondering, “Well, Caleb, why don’t you just get a storage unit if storage is an issue?” To which I’d say: “Oh, I have one.” I’ll get to that in the time/cost section.
Digital Trends Then there’s the shipping part. Eventually, if we bought these things, but aren’t going to keep them, these TVs need to get shipped somewhere. Who am I going to ship them to? Options could include a secondary buyer or an auction winner, or possibly a charity or contest winner. Who is going to handle that shipment process? In addition to the challenges associated with shipping TVs out of our studio, there’s the matter of insurance. I’m going to need to ensure that the TV arrives at its destination safely, on time, and in good condition. That means contracting with a logistics company that is not FedEx or UPS, and it means adding insurance. All of that, as you gathered, leads us into time and cost. And under that category, we have the time dedicated to logistics, and the cost of the logistics, as well as the cost of purchasing the TVs and the cost associated with taking a loss for each and every TV we review.
Time and cost Starting with the time associated with the logistics: We r eview enough TVs here that we would need a person dedicated just to handling the shipping and receiving of TVs. That means being on the phone with the logistics companies, constantly coordinating the delivery of the TVs, and booking the shipping of outbound TVs and coordinating their pickup, as well as shuttling TVs back and forth to the storage unit — all while carefully timing things such that only the TVs we absolutely must have at the studio are actually in the studio. This would necessarily mean that a TV I don’t actually want to be here would have to be here taking up the space of another TV that I need to have here, even with the careful timing of our dedicated logistics person.
Digital Trends That person would also have to handle all of the processes involved in listing and selling the TV, collecting payments, running an auction and collecting payments, finding a charity, or running a giveaway. All of that is a full-time job, and that costs a not insignificant amount of money, which moves us to costs.
We will have to eat a loss on every TV we buy for review and then sell. Even if I had time to professionally calibrate each TV as a value-add on the sale to help minimize loss, that’s not legal for me to do, and I don’t have the time to do that. In addition to eating the loss on the cost of the TV, we have to support the cost of shipping every outbound TV — which is no small amount because we’re talking about shipping a lot of large, heavy objects around. Plus, we have to pay for the insurance to make sure that if it doesn’t arrive in good shape, the cost of the TV is covered and can be replaced. Also, there’s time involved in replacing the TV. And there are costs associated with shuttling the TVs around locally to and from our storage unit.
Conservatively, we are looking at no less than $85,000 a year. Never mind all the headaches that will arise when something goes wrong. Also, as the seller of the TV, there’s inherently an expectation that we are going to have the time to somehow support the sale or help troubleshoot issues. But we aren’t Best Buy or Value Electronics, and we simply can’t offer that service.
To all of this, you might say: Rtings and Consumer Reports do it: Well, we aren’t Rtings or Consumer Reports. We have a completely different business model. And I might point out that business models like Rtings and Consumer Reports are very much in the minority, and there’s a good reason for that.
Digital Trends But beyond the business model considerations, this job of pulling in many, many TVs per year and then making them disappear is only feasible for us when all the logistics and costs are handled by the TV brands. They have it built into their budgets. That’s why review samples are a thing, and why the vast majority of publications participate in reviewer programs.
Oh, one more cost I forgot to mention: Insurance for us.
 Our studio and storage unit are covered up to a certain amount. The more TVs we have sitting around, the more risk we take on if there is theft, fire, or some other cataclysmic event. If something bad were to happen, we’d take a big hit.
Liability The next category is liability — and I already covered some of this in terms of the liability involved in making sure a TV arrives in good shape, the expectation that we service a sale like a retailer, and the liability of loss due to a tragic event. There’s also liability involved with Uncle Sam. We are not an authorized retailer or reseller of consumer electronics. Once we pass a certain threshold, we are treading into legal hot water. We have a lawyer on staff at Digital Trends, but this kind of thing is not in their purview, and it can’t be.
Access Frankly, all of that is reason enough that we can’t buy our TVs at retail. But there are some access considerations as well. By access, I mean a few different things. First, and possibly foremost, is that I can often get products sooner than they are available at retai. That changed for a little bit during the pandemic when logistics became a nightmare for everyone, but it’s been returning to normal.
Digital Trends Obviously, I’m interested in getting products as soon as I can to provide timely reviews. But also, by developing an open dialogue with TV brands, getting briefings so I can understand their technology better, and being able to provide those brands with feedback on their products, there are multiple benefits. For one, I can get questions on deep technical questions answered quickly. I have access to the engineers who designed this stuff. I have access to the manufacturing facilities that put it together. I can get information a lot of other folks can’t. Second, I can also provide feedback to these companies that make their products better by the time they do reach store shelves — this is a big part of why firmware updates come quickly and fix problems before or soon after TVs land in people’s homes.
I say what I want to say, and that’s it.
Finally, We’re seeing an increasing number of TVs that won’t get shipped to any reviewers. In those cases, TV brands will host reviewer workshops where I and other journalists can get some one-on-one time with the TVs that are just too big or too expensive to ship. In some cases, that’s the only way we’d be able to review them — unless we bought them and waited for them to arrive, but that takes us back to the points I made earlier. And the stakes are way, way higher with a $30,000 TV than they are with a $5,000 TV.
Now, I can understand if folks feel like this sort of quid pro quo relationship must mean that TV brands get some kind of influence over editorial content. Let me be clear: They do not.
And they know that. And most of them know not to try. The folks I deal with have been at this reviewer program thing for a long time. They know my editorial commentary is not for sale. They can’t ask me to say something or not say something. I mean, they can ask, but ultimately, I’m going to say no. I say what I want to say, and that’s it. That’s why none of my reviews will ever be sponsored, and why sponsored content is clearly labeled as such and we don’t try to pass it off as a review.
Digital Trends That can not be said for some other publications, and it definitely can not be said for so-called “influencers” who will 100% try to pass off paid content as editorial content. The teams that work with influencers are very different than the teams that work with journalists. Unfortunately for me, that means sometimes they get stuff before I do or even get stuff that I won’t get. But I’m OK with that, because those instances are few and far between, and my editorial content doesn’t get compromised.
Feasibility matters There are other general feasibility issues in terms of editorial content. If I get to buy all the products I review, then all the other editors should get to do the same, right? And if it’s not tenable for me alone, it’s certainly not something that can be supported across the entire publication. TVs aren’t the only expensive products we test here. Think computers, for starters.
There’s also the hard fact that, even with dedicated people handling logistics, it’s unlikely we could keep up with the publishing schedule we want to maintain. Also, consider that reviewing TVs is not all that I do.
I review lots of other tech products , I do public speaking, I cover trade shows and other events, I do guest spots on TV and radio programs — I need TVs to be here when I need them to be here and gone when I need them gone, no delays. It’s tough enough as it is with TV brands handling the logistics.
Oh, and I want to address the question of why I don’t just buy and then return the TVs. Because I get to buy and return a TV twice before I get blacklisted, and that’s if someone doesn’t figure out who I am and what I’m up to at the start. Amazon, B&H, Best Buy, Target, Crutchfield — I mean, I’d burn all of those up in one year.
And that’s the other part of this. I do stuff at a scale that only other large publications do. I review a lot of TVs and other products as well. I don’t have the opportunity to borrow and return TVs because I would destroy someone’s business if I did that.
Chris Hagan / Digital Trends Finally, I want to address the notion that I’m always going to receive so-called Golden Samples and that my experience will be drastically different than that of general consumers. First of all, not every TV that gets here is a golden sample. I’ve received some TVs that did not have very good screen uniformity or were riddled with DSE, as well as TVs where the processor just didn’t behave correctly.
It happens, and I report it.
I think there’s this notion that — I’ll just use TCL as an example because I think its TVs are familiar and at the front of mind for a lot of folks right now — a Golden Sample Q7 might be as good as the worst retail example of a QM8 , the model just above it. That’s just not true. The margin of performance difference between retail examples of one model is not enough to offset the performance difference between two different models.
Also, I just want consistency. I’d like to see the best example of a TV’s capable performance and compare that to the best example of another TV’s capable performance, thus leveling the playing field for these TVs. The level is high, but it is level , and that’s what matters to me.
Editors' Recommendations You Asked 10: picture calibration, best budget buys, and premium small screens You Asked: plasma TV replacements, cheap OLEDs, and Sharp’s return You Asked: Sonos setups, 5,000 nits, and dumb TVs You Asked: Soundbars vs. receivers, TVs with no speakers, and car stereos You Asked: How to add a subwooofer to Apple Homepods, Hisense UX review question Features You Asked Audio / Video It's tough to hit a YouTube property lately without running into a giant banner for NFL Sunday Ticket. And for good reason — the only (legal) service that lets you watch all the Sunday NFL games has moved from DirecTV to YouTube and YouTube TV. And that means that NFL Sunday Ticket is available to a lot more people. Like, all of them.
That's a good thing. The ability to watch what you want on whatever hardware you have is important. But there's a funny little fluke when it comes to how you buy NFL Sunday Ticket. Depending on the platform you're on, you might not actually be able to purchase NFL Sunday Ticket. At least not without taking a few extra steps.
Audio / Video You’ve got more questions, I’ve got more answers. This is the second installment in a series that lets me answer some of the burning questions we get from the Digital Trends community. You all come up with great questions and we love them -- keep them coming! Overseas TVs Our first question today comes from @dragosmoldovan990 who wrote: I'm in Europe, and the AV landscape is kinda different here. Any chance for you to get a look at Philips OLED TVs, for instance? I know they are not available in the States but we simply have no good information sources here.
Audio / Video You’ve got questions, I’ve got answers.
This is our first installment of a new series we’re calling “You Asked” because, well, many of you have asked me a lot of questions. And while I do my best to reply to them -- in our YouTube comments, Instagram DMs, Twitter or … X or whatever it’s called, even via email -- there is just not enough time in the day, week, month, year, decade, or what’s left of my lifetime to get to all of them.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
