Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade 2023: all confirmed performers By Dan Girolamo Close The Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade returns in 2023 for its 97th edition on Thursday, November 23. The parade is a New York City tradition that originated in 1924. The Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade begins on West 77th Street & Central Park West.
 The parade marches to Columbus Circle, turning into Central Park West and continuing down 6th Avenue. The 2.5-mile route ends at the iconic Macy’s Herald Square on 7th Avenue.
Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade 2023: all confirmed performers How to watch the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade 2023 The parade is known for its iconic balloons and floats that soar next to the city’s high-rise buildings. Featured balloons in the 2023 parade include Beagle Scout Snoopy, Paw Patrol, Pikachu, Ronald McDonald, SpongeBob SquarePants, and Stuart the Minion. The other standout moments in the parade are the performances from some of the most popular musical acts in the world. Below, you’ll find a list of all the confirmed performers in the 2023 Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade.
Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade 2023: all confirmed performers Kicking off the performances will be Jon Batiste. The former bandleader on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert won a Grammy for Album of the Year with 2021’s We Are and an Oscar for his work on Pixar’s Soul.
 To promote her new Christmas album, the iconic Cher will perform during the parade. Cher will sing one of her new holiday hits from her 27th album, Christmas.
How to watch 2023 AEW All Out All the movies and TV shows announced at San Diego Comic-Con 2023 Where to watch Macy’s 4th of July Fireworks 2023: live stream the event for free Other performers for the 2023 Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade are Alex Smith, Amanda Shaw, Ashley Park with the Muppets of Sesame Street, Bell Biv DeVoe, Brandy, Chicago, David Foster & Katharine McPhee, Drew Holcomb & The Neighbors, Enhypen, En Vogue, Jessie James Decker, Manuel Turizo, Miss America Grace Stanke, Paul Russell, and Pentatonix.
Performance groups include the Big Apple Circus, Cornell Bhangra, Harlem Globetrotters, Maria Verdeja School of theArts, Spirit of America Cheer, Spirit of America Dance Stars, St. John’s Dance Team, the Tap Dancing Christmas Trees, and Tiptoe Winter Guard.
Eleven marching bands from around the country will perform during the parade. They are: Alabama A&M University Marching Maroon & White Band, the Band Directors Marching Band, Fishers High School Marching Tiger Band, Greendale High School Marching Band, Jenison High School Marching Band, Macy’s Great American Marching Band, Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School Eagle Regiment Marching Band, Mercer Island High School Marching Band, O’Fallon Township High School Marching Panthers, Rutgers University Marching Scarlet Knights, and Texas Tech University Goin’ Band from Raiderland.
How to watch the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade 2023 John Prato / Flickr The 2023 Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade begins at 8:30 a.m. ET/5:30 a.m. PT on Thanksgiving morning. The 2023 parade starts 30 minutes earlier than its usual start time. The parade will air on NBC and be hosted by Today’s Hoda Kotb, Savannah Guthrie, and Al Roker. NBC will air an encore telecast at 2 p.m. ET.
Additionally, the parade can be streamed live on Peacock starting at 8:30 a.m. ET/5:30 a.m. PT. Peacock Premium costs $6/month, and Peacock Premium Plus costs $12/month. Peacock does not offer a free trial.
 However, Peacock offers live coverage of the NFL, PGA Tour, and Premier League, alongside hit movies and TV shows such as The Super Mario Bros.
Movie and Yellowstone.
Editors' Recommendations 2023 Feast Week live stream: watch Thanksgiving college basketball for free How to watch 2023 AEW All In Where to watch the 2023 MLB All-Star Game: live stream for free Where to watch the National Memorial Day concert: live stream the event for free All the movies and TV shows leaving Hulu in June 2023 Entertainment Every Mother's Day, forgetful children around the world make a mad dash to the store to find the perfect present for mom. This year, will it be chocolate? Candy? Flowers? A basket of tastefully arranged fruit that really signals your desperation? Why not give the gift of a good movie? From an Oscar-winning drama starring three acting legends to a sci-fi classic from the 1980s, these movies are sure to appeal to just about every mother and child out there.
Steel Magnolias (1989) Entertainment Parting is such sweet sorrow, and that's never been more true for Hulu than in April 2023, when a handful of excellent movies, TV shows, and documentaries are leaving the streamer for an undetermined length of time.
But bad news can also be good news, as this serves as an excellent motivation to watch those programs you've always wanted to see, but never got a chance to. From an underrated historical drama starring Matt Damon, 65's Adam Driver, Jodie Comer, and Ben Affleck to a classic rom-com starring Jack Nicholson, Diane Keaton, and John Wick: Chapter 4's Keanu Reeves, Hulu has a lot of expiring content this month to warrant one last viewing before they go away.
April 13 The Last Duel (2021) April 14 Centurion (2010) Entertainment On January 24, 2023, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences announced the nominees for the 95th Academy Awards (2023 Oscars). Now that the dust has settled and the nominations have concluded, the campaigning has only just begun for this group of nominees. With the ceremony in March, many of the nominated films will make final pushes to sway voters in their respective categories.
Who will win the coveted prize of Best Picture? With movies from industry giants like James Cameron and Steven Spielberg to genre-bending adventures like Everything Everywhere All at Once, Best Picture features an excellent batch of films from a diverse group of filmmakers. Listed below are the Best Picture nominees with information on where to watch each of the films.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
