Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? NFL games today: schedule, channels, live streams for November 5 By Dan Girolamo Close Week 9 features four excellent games, with one in every time window. The action starts Sunday morning when the Miami Dolphins play the Kansas City Chiefs in Germany. The early afternoon window features the Seattle Seahawks taking on the Baltimore Ravens. The late afternoon slate includes a potential NFC Championship matchup between the Dallas Cowboys and Philadelphia Eagles. Last but not least, the Buffalo Bills and Cincinnati Bengals square off in the night game.
Miami Dolphins at Kansas City Chiefs start time, channel, and live stream Minnesota Vikings at Atlanta Falcons start time, channel, and live stream Seattle Seahawks at Baltimore Ravens start time, channel, and live stream Arizona Cardinals at Cleveland Browns start time, channel, and live stream Los Angeles Rams at Green Bay Packers start time, channel, and live stream Tampa Bay Buccaneers at Houston Texans start time, channel, and live stream Washington Commanders at New England Patriots start time, channel, and live stream Chicago Bears at New Orleans Saints start time, channel, and live stream Indianapolis Colts at Carolina Panthers start time, channel, and live stream New York Giants at Las Vegas Raiders start time, channel, and live stream Dallas Cowboys at Philadelphia Eagles start time, channel, and live stream Buffalo Bills at Cincinnati Bengals start time, channel, and live stream Overall, the Week 9 schedule contains 12 games on Sunday, November 5.
Today’s results will go a long way in determining the number-one overall seeds in the AFC and NFC.
 Streaming information for each game is listed below. Remember, every game is available to watch with a subscription to NFL Sunday Ticket, which slashed prices for the back half of the season , through YouTube TV.
 For new customers, YouTube TV offers a free trial at sign-up.
Miami Dolphins at Kansas City Chiefs start time, channel, and live stream All-Pro Reels Photography / Flickr Start Time: 9:30 a.m. ET Channel: NFL Network Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV The Dolphins (6-2) and their top-ranked scoring attack (33.9 points per game) will see if their offense translates overseas. Meanwhile, the Chiefs (6-2) boast an incredible defense, surrendering the second-fewest points per game (16.1). One player looking to make a statement will be Dolphins wide receiver Tyreek Hill, who spent his first six seasons with the Chiefs.
New York Jets vs. Las Vegas Raiders live stream: watch the NFL for free Dallas Cowboys vs. Philadelphia Eagles live stream: watch the NFL for free NFL games today: schedule, channels, live streams for October 29 Minnesota Vikings at Atlanta Falcons start time, channel, and live stream Those @Vikings rookie WRs are good, huh? (via @gmfb ) @Espn_Jordan | @RandyMoss pic.twitter.com/UWnctnBU1a &mdash; NFL Network (@nflnetwork) November 2, 2023 Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: Fox Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV After starting 1-4, the Vikings (4-4) are winners of three-straight games and find themselves back at .500. However, quarterback Kirk Cousins is out for the rest of the season with a torn Achilles. Look for the recently acquired Joshua Dobbs to play quarterback for the Vikings. The Vikings’ first test post-Cousins is on the road in Atlanta against the Falcons (4-4), who will turn to Taylor Heinicke at quarterback.
Seattle Seahawks at Baltimore Ravens start time, channel, and live stream The Core Revealed / Flickr Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: CBS Stream: NFL+ , Paramount+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV The best matchup in the early window will be played in Baltimore. Seattle is coming off a comeback victory over the Cleveland Browns. The Seahawks (5-2) now have to face one of the best teams in the AFC, the Baltimore Ravens (6-2). Had it not been for a few mistakes in two games, the Ravens would have been 8-0 heading into this game.
Arizona Cardinals at Cleveland Browns start time, channel, and live stream Erik Drost / Flickr Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: CBS Stream: NFL+ , Paramount+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV The Joshua Dobbs era is over in Arizona as the Cardinals (1-7) prepare to welcome back Kyler Murray to the lineup. However, Murray may not be ready for Sunday. Clayton Tune will start if Murray can’t go. Cleveland also may be without their starting quarterback, Deshaun Watson, who is dealing with a shoulder injury. The Browns (4-3) will turn to P.J. Walker in Watson’s absence.
Los Angeles Rams at Green Bay Packers start time, channel, and live stream NFL Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: Fox Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV The Rams (3-5) are at a crossroads in their season. The Rams cannot afford another loss if they want to stay in the playoff hunt. To make matters worse, quarterback Matthew Stafford will likely be a game-time decision with a thumb injury. Standing in front of the Rams are the Green Bay Packers (2-5), who have lost four straight games. It’s make-or-break time for Packers quarterback Jordan Love.
Tampa Bay Buccaneers at Houston Texans start time, channel, and live stream That SWARM mentality 😤 pic.twitter.com/dbMjLZ9iOK &mdash; Houston Texans (@HoustonTexans) November 2, 2023 Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: CBS Stream: NFL+ , Paramount+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV There are better games on the schedule, but the Buccaneers (3-4) versus Texans (3-4) is a key matchup, considering both teams need the win to stay in the playoff race. The Buccaneers could be making a quarterback change if Baker Mayfield loses in Houston. For the Texans, C.J. Stroud is coming off the worst performance of his rookie season, so the young quarterback will be eager to bounce back.
Washington Commanders at New England Patriots start time, channel, and live stream This is Commanders starting quarterback Sam Howell during today&#39;s very chilly practice.
He is 4-5 as a starter in Washington.
He will try to make it 5-5 on Sunday against the Patriots.
pic.twitter.com/kRvCOXQefN &mdash; Scott Abraham (@Scott7news) November 1, 2023 Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: Fox Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV The Commanders (3-5) were sellers at the deadline, trading defensive ends Montez Sweat and Chase Young to the Chicago Bears and San Francisco 49ers, respectively. On the positive, quarterback Sam Howell looked promising against the Eagles, finishing with 397 yards and four touchdowns in a losing effort. Speaking of quarterbacks, New England Patriots quarterback Mac Jones continues to regress. Fans are starting to wonder if Bill Belichick will bench Jones if the losing continues.
Chicago Bears at New Orleans Saints start time, channel, and live stream All-Pro Reels Photography / Flickr Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: CBS Stream: NFL+ , Paramount+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV This game would have been more interesting if quarterback Justin Fields could play. However, it’s looking like Fields will miss another week with a dislocated right thumb. Tyson Bagent will start if Fields can’t play. Bagent has the daunting task of playing the Saints (4-4) and their top 10 defense.
Indianapolis Colts at Carolina Panthers start time, channel, and live stream In four starts, Gardner Minshew is averaging 268.5 passing yards and 1.5 TD passes a game. His opponents in those starts (Ravens, Jaguars, Browns, Saints) rank 1st, 5th, 2nd and 8th in DVOA against the pass.
&mdash; Pat Fitzmaurice (@Fitz_FF) November 2, 2023 Start Time: 4:05 p.m. ET Channel: CBS Stream: NFL+ , Paramount+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV Despite the poor record, the Colts (3-5) look like they have the right head coach going forward in Shane Steichen. Even with a backup quarterback, the Colts are ranked sixth in points per game (25.6). Indianapolis now faces the Carolina Panthers (1-6), who ended their six-game losing streak in Week 8 to win their first game of the season.
New York Giants at Las Vegas Raiders start time, channel, and live stream From @NFLTotalAccess : Breaking down how and why #Raiders coach Josh McDaniels was fired.
pic.twitter.com/1TqjQLRG81 &mdash; Ian Rapoport (@RapSheet) November 1, 2023 Start Time: 4:25 p.m. ET Channel: Fox Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV On paper, this is a bad game. The Giants (2-6) are coming off an embarrassing 13-10 overtime loss to the New York Jets. The Giants finished the game with -9 passing yards because they refused to let third-string quarterback Tommy DeVito throw the ball in the second half. The Giants play the new-look Raiders, who fired head coach Josh McDaniels and general manager Dave Ziegler earlier this week. Additionally, the Raiders are benching quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo in favor of Aidan O’Connell.
Dallas Cowboys at Philadelphia Eagles start time, channel, and live stream All-Pro Reels / Flickr Start Time: 4:25 p.m. ET Channel: Fox Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV The entire NFL world will be watching the Cowboys (5-2) versus the Eagles (7-1) on late Sunday afternoon. The Cowboys and Eagles are considered two of the best teams in the NFC. If Dallas wants to be taken seriously as a contender, they need to beat the Eagles in Philadelphia on Sunday. If Philadelphia wins, they are in the driver’s seat for the division and the top seed in the conference.
Buffalo Bills at Cincinnati Bengals start time, channel, and live stream Erik Drost / Wiki Commons Start Time: 8:20 p.m. ET Channel: NBC Stream: NFL+ , , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV Don’t look now, but the Bengals (4-3) are healthy and back to championship form after winning three straight games. The Bengals welcome the Bills (5-3) to Cincinnati for Sunday Night Football. When these two teams last met in Cincinnati, tragedy struck as Buffalo’s Demar Hamlin suffered a cardiac arrest and had to be revived on the field. Thankfully, Hamlin survived and will be on the sidelines for this game.
Editors' Recommendations 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November NFL games today: schedule, channels, live streams for November 12 Miami Dolphins vs. Kansas City Chiefs live stream: watch the NFL for free Houston Texans vs. Carolina Panthers live stream: watch the NFL for free Miami Dolphins vs. Philadelphia Eagles live stream: watch the NFL for free Entertainment After Week 6, there are no more undefeated teams in the NFL. The San Francisco 49ers (5-1) fell to the Cleveland Browns (3-2), and the Philadelphia Eagles (5-1) lost to the New York Jets (3-3). Five teams now sit atop the standings with 5-1 records: the 49ers, Eagles, Kansas City Chiefs, Detroit Lions, and Miami Dolphins.
Speaking of the Dolphins and the Eagles, those two teams will meet on Sunday Night Football in the "Game of the Week." Overall, 11 games are on the Week 7 schedule for Sunday, October 22. Besides Miami versus Philadelphia, the best early game will be played in Baltimore as Lamar Jackson and the Ravens (4-2) play Jared Goff and the Lions. For more NFL content, fans can sign up for NFL Sunday Ticket through YouTube TV. New customers can sign up for a free trial.
Detroit Lions at Baltimore Ravens start time, channel, and live stream Entertainment An AFC West rivalry will write another chapter when the Los Angeles Chargers (2-3) head to the Midwest on Sunday afternoon to play the Kansas City Chiefs (5-1). The pivotal showdown will be at Arrowhead Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri. On FanDuel, the Chiefs are 5.5-point favorites.
It's a kitchen sink game for the Chargers, as they need to win to stay in the hunt for the playoffs. Meanwhile, the Chiefs are attempting to win the AFC West for the eighth straight year. Whenever the Chargers and Chiefs play, expect the final score to be close. The Chiefs have won the previous three matchups, dating back to the 2021 season.
Watch the Chargers vs. Chiefs live stream on CBS Entertainment If there's one thing that football fans in Green Bay can take heart from, it's that their beloved Packers have at least won twice as many games as Denver's football team. Unfortunately for both teams, their collective total number of victories this season is now three. But hey, somebody has to win when the Green Bay Packers (2-3) take on the Denver Broncos (1-5) in Denver. The Packers are a 1-point favorite on FanDuel. Green Bay and Denver last played in September 2019, with the Packers winning by a score of 27-16.
Because both teams are playing very poorly this season, the 1-point spread suggests that analysts aren't expecting a high-scoring game. It also means this is really anyone's game, and either the Broncos or the Packers can step up and add another victory to their win column. If you're looking for ways to watch the game, live TV streaming services will broadcast the Packers versus the Broncos. Sling TV is an option for consumers looking for the game on a live TV streaming service. Below, you'll find more information on how to watch the Packers take on the Broncos.
Watch the the Packers vs. Broncos live stream on CBS Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
