Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? NFL games today: schedule, channels, live streams for October 29 By Dan Girolamo Close Week 8 is one of the rare times in the middle of the NFL season when all 32 teams are in action. The Kansas City Chiefs (6-1) and Philadelphia Eagles (6-1) sit atop their respective conferences. Could the Chiefs and Eagles run the table and play in the Super Bowl for the second straight year? It’s possible. The franchise playing like the third-best team in the NFL is the Baltimore Ravens (5-2), who dismantled the Lions 38-6 in Week 7.
New Orleans Saints at Indianapolis Colts start time, channel, and live stream Jacksonville Jaguars at Pittsburgh Steelers start time, channel, and live stream Houston Texans at Carolina Panthers start time, channel, and live stream Philadelphia Eagles at Washington Commanders start time, channel, and live stream Los Angeles Rams at Dallas Cowboys start time, channel, and live stream New England Patriots at Miami Dolphins start time, channel, and live stream New York Jets at New York Giants start time, channel, and live stream Atlanta Falcons at Tennessee Titans start time, channel, and live stream Minnesota Vikings at Green Bay Packers start time, channel, and live stream Cleveland Browns at Seattle Seahawks start time, channel, and live stream Kansas City Chiefs at Denver Broncos start time, channel, and live stream Baltimore Ravens at Arizona Cardinals start time, channel, and live stream Cincinnati Bengals at San Francisco 49ers start time, channel, and live stream Chicago Bears at Los Angeles Chargers start time, channel, and live stream Overall, Week 8 includes 14 games on Sunday, October 29.
The two best games of the day – the Cleveland Browns (4-2) at Seattle Seahawks (4-2) and Cincinnati Bengals (3-3) at San Francisco 49ers (5-2) – are both part of the late afternoon slate. Information on how to watch and stream each game is listed below. To watch every game, sign up for NFL Sunday Ticket through YouTube TV.
 New customers can take advantage of YouTube TV ’s free trial.
New Orleans Saints at Indianapolis Colts start time, channel, and live stream Carl Granderson leads the #Saints with 4.5 sacks this season 💪 📺: at Colts Sunday – Noon CT on FOX pic.twitter.com/WUaApnlodU &mdash; New Orleans Saints (@Saints) October 26, 2023 Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: Fox Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV The Saints and Colts are both 3-4. That record is disappointing if you like the Saints and acceptable if you root for the Colts. The Saints were the favorites to win the NFC South, but New Orleans has lost three of its last four games. Meanwhile, the Colts lost quarterback Anthony Richardson for the season, yet they remain competitive thanks to one of the league’s better backups, Gardner Minshew.
NFL games today: schedule, channels, live streams for November 12 Dallas Cowboys vs. Philadelphia Eagles live stream: watch the NFL for free Houston Texans vs. Carolina Panthers live stream: watch the NFL for free Jacksonville Jaguars at Pittsburgh Steelers start time, channel, and live stream Joshua J. Seybert / Dvids Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: CBS Stream: NFL+ , Paramount+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV The Jaguars (5-2) are one of the hottest teams in the NFL, having won four straight games. Jacksonville has a major test on Sunday when they play the Pittsburgh Steelers (4-2), who are finding ways to win despite their offensive struggles. This is a rematch of the Divisional Round in the 2017 NFL postseason, which the Jaguars won 45-42.
Houston Texans at Carolina Panthers start time, channel, and live stream CJ Stroud and Bryce Young first faced each other when they were just in seventh grade.
At the time, they didn’t really know each other, but by the end of high school they were like brothers.
Young finished high school as the No. 1 QB prospect out of California and Stroud No. 3.… pic.twitter.com/0AilC1JTO5 &mdash; NFL Rookie Watch (@NFLRookieWatxh) October 26, 2023 Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: Fox Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV The first two picks in the 2023 NFL Draft will face each other for the first time on Sunday when C.J. Stroud and the Houston Texans (3-3) play Bryce Young and the Carolina Panthers (0-6). Stroud, who was picked after Young with the second selection, has been the best rookie quarterback this season, with 1,660 yards passing, nine touchdowns, and one interception.
Philadelphia Eagles at Washington Commanders start time, channel, and live stream NFL Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: Fox Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV It’s a rivalry game in the NFC East as the Eagles head to Maryland to play the Washington Commanders (3-4). These two teams met in a thriller back in Week 4. The Commanders scored a touchdown as time expired to force overtime. However, the Eagles won 34-31 in overtime thanks to a game-winning field goal from Jake Elliot.
Los Angeles Rams at Dallas Cowboys start time, channel, and live stream All-Pro Reels / Flickr Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: Fox Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV It’s a monumental week for Rams head coach Sean McVay. First, McVay and his wife, Veronika, welcomed their first child earlier this week. Now, Sean will look to keep the good vibes up with a win against the Cowboys (4-2). When Dallas last played, it won a hard-fought game over the Los Angeles Chargers on Monday Night Football. Dallas must keep winning to keep pace with Philadelphia in the NFC East.
New England Patriots at Miami Dolphins start time, channel, and live stream CCS Pictures / Flickr Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: CBS Stream: NFL+ , Paramount+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV The Patriots (2-5) pulled a rabbit out of their hats in Week 7, upsetting the Bills 29-25. Quarterback Mac Jones played his best game all season, capped off by a game-winning touchdown pass with under 20 seconds left. New England will look to make it two wins in a row over the AFC East as they head south to Miami to play the Dolphins (5-2), a team that has won five of its last six games against the Patriots.
New York Jets at New York Giants start time, channel, and live stream Saquon Barkley discusses the Jets-Giants rivalry and playing them on Sunday: &quot;There&#39;s definitely a little more something to the game and I felt that the last time I played in it… at the end of the day all you want to do is win and that&#39;s our goal.&quot; pic.twitter.com/1wlVyNUIBz &mdash; Giants Videos (@SNYGiants) October 26, 2023 Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: CBS Stream: NFL+ , Paramount+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV It’s the Battle of MetLife Stadium in the Meadowlands when the Jets (3-3) face the Giants (2-5) on Sunday afternoon. It will be considered a Giants home game, so expect most of the stadium to be covered in blue. With the Giants’ win last week, this matchup is more interesting because both teams need a win to stay in the playoff hunt.
Atlanta Falcons at Tennessee Titans start time, channel, and live stream The throwback Houston Oilers uniforms that the Tennessee Titans will wear Sunday at home vs. the Falcons: pic.twitter.com/8p2TRcHSzZ &mdash; Adam Schefter (@AdamSchefter) October 23, 2023 Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: CBS Stream: NFL+ , Paramount+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV Falcons head coach Arthur Smith upset a lot of fantasy owners in Week 7 by failing to disclose a Bijan Robinson injury before the game — the star running back barely played in the team’s 16-13 win over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Robinson should be a go on Sunday against the Tennessee Titans (2-4), who will turn to rookie quarterback Will Levis following the injury to Ryan Tannehill.
Minnesota Vikings at Green Bay Packers start time, channel, and live stream Joe Glorioso / All-Pro Reels Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: Fox Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV Do you like that ? Vikings fans certainly enjoyed Kirk Cousins’ winning performance against the 49ers. Minnesota has now won two straight games, and they will be slight favorites over the Packers (2-4), who are quickly finding out that life without Aaron Rodgers is difficult. Quarterback Jordan Love needs more time to develop. Unfortunately, he won’t get the chance and must figure it out quickly, or the Packers will find a new quarterback.
Cleveland Browns at Seattle Seahawks start time, channel, and live stream Erik Drost / Flickr Start Time: 4:05 p.m.
 ET Channel: Fox Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV One of the best games of the day features the Cleveland Browns heading to the West Coast to play the Seattle Seahawks. Defensive end Myles Garrett is the anchor on a Browns defense that surrenders the fewest yards per game (243.0). Cleveland’s defense will be tasked with stopping Seattle’s offense led by Geno Smith, Kenneth Walker III, and DK Metcalf.
Kansas City Chiefs at Denver Broncos start time, channel, and live stream All-Pro Reels Photography / Flickr Start Time: 4:25 p.m. ET Channel: CBS Stream: NFL+ , Paramount+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV Death, taxes, and Chiefs’ victories over the Broncos (2-5). The Chiefs have won 16 straight games against the Broncos. Denver has not defeated the Chiefs since the Obama Administration (9-17-2015). With the result all but guaranteed, only one question remains: will Taylor Swift be in attendance? Baltimore Ravens at Arizona Cardinals start time, channel, and live stream The Core Revealed / Flickr Start Time: 4:25 p.m. ET Channel: CBS Stream: NFL+ , Paramount+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV After their blowout victory against the Lions, the Baltimore Ravens appear to be the Chiefs’ toughest competition in the AFC. This is the best offense in the Lamar Jackson era, as the former MVP finally has weapons like Zay Flowers, Mark Andrews, and Odell Beckham Jr. However, the Ravens can’t look past the Cardinals (1-6), whose lone win came against a talented Dallas Cowboys team.
Cincinnati Bengals at San Francisco 49ers start time, channel, and live stream With Brock Purdy in concussion protocol, 49ers’ QB Sam Darnold now is in line to start Sunday’s game vs. the Bengals.
pic.twitter.com/NNigQ9XEy4 &mdash; Adam Schefter (@AdamSchefter) October 25, 2023 Start Time: 4:25 p.m. ET Channel: CBS Stream: NFL+ , Paramount+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV Are things OK again in Cincinnati? After a 1-3 start, the Bengals temporarily righted the ship with two consecutive victories. More importantly, quarterback Joe Burrows looks healthy, which is a bad sign for the rest of the AFC. The 49ers are on a two-game losing streak and might not have quarterback Brock Purdy because of a concussion. If Purdy can’t play, Sam Darnold will start in his place.
Chicago Bears at Los Angeles Chargers start time, channel, and live stream All-Pro Reels / Flickr Start Time: 8:20 p.m. ET Channel: NBC Stream: NFL+ , , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV This week’s Sunday Night Game is one of the weakest games on the schedule. The Bears (2-5) are coming off an impressive 30-12 victory over the Raiders. Tyson Bagent, who played Division II football, looked solid at quarterback in place of the injured Justin Fields. Bagent will start against the Chargers (2-4), who cannot afford to lose another game at this point in the season.
Editors' Recommendations New York Jets vs. Las Vegas Raiders live stream: watch the NFL for free NFL games today: schedule, channels, live streams for November 5 Miami Dolphins vs. Kansas City Chiefs live stream: watch the NFL for free Miami Dolphins vs. Philadelphia Eagles live stream: watch the NFL for free NFL games today: schedule, channels, live streams for October 22 Entertainment An AFC West rivalry will write another chapter when the Los Angeles Chargers (2-3) head to the Midwest on Sunday afternoon to play the Kansas City Chiefs (5-1). The pivotal showdown will be at Arrowhead Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri. On FanDuel, the Chiefs are 5.5-point favorites.
It's a kitchen sink game for the Chargers, as they need to win to stay in the hunt for the playoffs. Meanwhile, the Chiefs are attempting to win the AFC West for the eighth straight year. Whenever the Chargers and Chiefs play, expect the final score to be close. The Chiefs have won the previous three matchups, dating back to the 2021 season.
Watch the Chargers vs. Chiefs live stream on CBS Entertainment If there's one thing that football fans in Green Bay can take heart from, it's that their beloved Packers have at least won twice as many games as Denver's football team. Unfortunately for both teams, their collective total number of victories this season is now three. But hey, somebody has to win when the Green Bay Packers (2-3) take on the Denver Broncos (1-5) in Denver. The Packers are a 1-point favorite on FanDuel. Green Bay and Denver last played in September 2019, with the Packers winning by a score of 27-16.
Because both teams are playing very poorly this season, the 1-point spread suggests that analysts aren't expecting a high-scoring game. It also means this is really anyone's game, and either the Broncos or the Packers can step up and add another victory to their win column. If you're looking for ways to watch the game, live TV streaming services will broadcast the Packers versus the Broncos. Sling TV is an option for consumers looking for the game on a live TV streaming service. Below, you'll find more information on how to watch the Packers take on the Broncos.
Watch the the Packers vs. Broncos live stream on CBS Entertainment Division rivals Buffalo and New England are having two very different seasons, and so far, the Patriots are really taking a beating. Will things turn around when the Buffalo Bills (4-2) take on the New England Patriots (1-5) in Foxborough, Massachusetts? We'll see, but the Bills are an 8-point favorite on FanDuel. Buffalo and New England last played in January of this year, with the Bills winning by a score of 35-23.
Just because the Bills have a winning record doesn't mean fans are happy in Buffalo. It's been hard to miss the fact that the Bills have limped to victory in games that they should have easily won. And while the Patriots haven't posed much of a threat this season, the Bills really need to step up their game if they're going to hang with the elite teams of the NFL. If you're looking for ways to watch the game, live TV streaming services will broadcast the Bills versus the Patriots.
Watch the Buffalo Bills vs. New England Patriots live stream on CBS Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
