Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 3 best shows like American Horror Story you should watch By Dan Girolamo Close In an era where shows are receiving fewer seasons, American Horror Story continues to be an anomaly. Created by Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk, American Horror Story has been going strong for over a decade, with its 12th season, Delicate , currently airing on FX. The popular horror anthology series has already been renewed for a 13th season.
The Fall of the House of Usher Black Mirror The X-Files Each season of American Horror Story features new characters and storylines that have been scaring audiences since 2011. From a murder house and asylum to a summer camp and freak show, American Horror Story continues to incorporate creepy settings to expand into every subgenre of horror. If you’re looking for more horror series, check out these three shows like American Horror Story that you should watch.
The Fall of the House of Usher Eike Schroter / Netflix What Murphy is to FX, Mike Flanagan is to Netflix. The prominent horror creator’s latest series for the streamer is the gothic horror hit, The Fall of the House of Usher.
Based on Edgar Allen Poe’s short story, The Fall of the House of Usher follows the exploits of Roderick (Bruce Greenwood and Zach Gilford) and Madeline (Mary McDonnell and Willa Fitzgerald) Usher, twin siblings who achieved power and wealth by building a pharmaceutical giant.
All of the American Horror Story seasons, ranked Like Fall of the House of Usher? Then watch these 5 TV shows that are just like it 5 horror movies like The Exorcist: Believer you should watch Tragedy strikes when Roderick’s six children all die within two weeks of each other in mysterious ways. Star Carla Gugino said the series is “ crazy in the best way possible.
” She wasn’t kidding, as The Fall of the House of Usher will surprise you from start to finish. After watching The Fall of the House of Usher , explore the rest of Flanagan’s horror series on Netflix, including The Haunting of Hill House , The Haunting of Bly Manor , Midnight Mass, and The Midnight Club.
Stream The Fall of the House of Usher on Netflix.
Black Mirror Nick Wall / Netflix Black Mirror is a nightmare that will probably never happen, but its themes hit close to home and make you feel worse about society. That sounds depressing, but the unease Black Mirror creates about the world is entertaining, a testament to the writing by the show’s creator, Charlie Brooker.
Black Mirror predominantly tells sci-fi stories about technology and its stranglehold on society.
Like American Horror Story , Black Mirror is an anthology series that introduces new characters and plots in every episode, meaning viewers can pick and choose what to watch. The list of t he best Black Mirror episodes includes San Junipero , USS Callister , The National Anthem, Nosedive, and The Entire History of You.
Stream Black Mirror on Netflix.
The X-Files 20th Century Fox Television Without The X-Files , there is no American Horror Story.
 Created by Chris Carter, The X-Files is a sci-fi drama that follows the partnership between two FBI Special Agents: Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) and Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson). Mulder and Scully specialize in investigating the “X-Files,” the unsolved cases involving paranormal activity and supernatural phenomena.
Mulder is a conspiracy theorist who believes in the paranormal, while Scully is the doctor who uses science to come to her conclusions.
The X-Files drew comparisons to The Twilight Zone because of its “monster of the week” format as Mulder and Scully face a new case and abnormal creature in each episode. The first seven seasons represent one of the best and most consistent shows of the 1990s.
Stream The X-Files on Hulu and Prime Video.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 3 best horror movies on Apple TV+ to watch this Halloween 3 Edgar Allan Poe horror movies to watch after Netflix’s Fall of the House of Usher 3 Apple TV+ shows you should watch before September ends 5 horror movies like The Nun 2 you should watch Entertainment August is often a month when the summer movie season winds down, which is why it can be the perfect time to launch a late summer horror movie. The Last Voyage of the Demeter seems to fit that bill perfectly, as it follows the crew of a ship who eventually discover that they are being picked off one by one by Dracula.
If you've caught The Last Voyage of the Demeter and are looking for something similar that you can watch from home, then you're in luck. Every streaming service has great horror titles (including some focused on vampires), and that may be true of Netflix most of all. Here are three movies like The Last Voyage of the Demeter that you can catch on Netflix.
The Invitation (2022) THE INVITATION – Official Trailer (HD) Entertainment With Talk to Me scaring up a success in theaters, A24 has announced that directors Danny and Michael Philippou will return to develop a sequel to this instant classic.
To those who haven't seen it yet, the film follows teenager Mia when she and her friends communicate with the dead using a magical embalmed hand, which naturally leads to unfathomable terrors. While the world waits for the sequel to come out, audiences can pass the time with these three similar movies that are available to stream on Netflix right now.
Ouija: Origin of Evil (2016) Entertainment The Ryan Murphy episodic universe is a dark, twisted, melodramatic, and, above all, addictive place. Luckily for fans of Murphy's TV masterpieces, plenty of streaming services provide the opportunity to get lost in his extensive selection of binge-worthy shows. American Horror Story is his longest-running and arguably most popular series to date. The anthology horror show offers a new storyline and cast of characters every season, with the varying themes ranging from witch covens to creepy cults to an actual apocalypse. Here's how to watch American Horror Story online -- eccentricities and all.
Created By: Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk Cast: Evan Peters, Sarah Paulson, Lily Rabe, Denis O'Hare, Jessica Lange, Emma Roberts, Jamie Brewer, Angela Bassett Number of Seasons: 9 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
