Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Dallas Cowboys vs. Philadelphia Eagles live stream: watch the NFL for free By Dan Girolamo Close The best game in the NFC on Sunday afternoon will be in Philadelphia when the Eagles play host to the Dallas Cowboys at Lincoln Financial Field. The game kicks off at 4:25 p.m. ET/1:25 p.m. PT on November 5.
 Kevin Burkhardt and Greg Olsen will call the game from the booth for Fox , with Erin Andrews and Tom Rinaldi reporting from the sidelines.
Watch the Cowboys vs. Eagles live stream on Sling TV Watch the Cowboys vs. Eagles live stream from abroad with a VPN The Cowboys (5-2) are out to prove they belong in the discussion of the best team in the NFC.
 Dallas has not beaten an NFC team with a record above .500 this season. It will have that chance on Sunday against the Eagles (7-1), who sit at the top of the NFC with one loss. The Eagles are arguably the most complete team in the NFL and have a great chance to represent the NFC in the Super Bowl for the second straight season.
Cowboys versus Eagles is one of the best rivalries in the NFL, with no love lost between the two teams. The winner will have bragging rights and, more importantly, the inside track to win the division. The easiest way to watch the game is on Fox with a cable package. However, there are streaming television services, like Sling TV , that offer Fox for a more affordable price than cable. Keep reading to learn more about Sling TV.
Washington Huskies vs. Oregon State Beavers live stream: watch college football for free 2023 Champions Classic live stream: watch college basketball for free USC Trojans vs. Oregon Ducks live stream: watch college football for free Watch the Cowboys vs. Eagles live stream on Sling TV Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends NFL games are available to watch with a subscription to Sling TV, one of the best live TV streaming services.
 With Sling TV , customers can watch NFL football on Fox, ABC, NBC, and ESPN. Between Sling Orange and Sling Blue, customers can choose whichever package best matches their television needs.
Sling Orange costs $40/month and features ESPN, TNT, Freeform, AMC, and CNN. Meanwhile, Sling Blue is priced at $45/month and includes NBC, Fox, ABC, TBS, and Travel Channel. To experience both packages, Sling Orange + Blue can be purchased for $60/month. Plus, new customers will secure 50% off their purchase for the first month.
Watch the Cowboys vs. Eagles live stream from abroad with a VPN NordVPN Cowboys versus Eagles could be one of the best games of 2023. The best part is these two teams will meet again in a few weeks. For American fans who have to watch this game while outside of the U.S., using a VPN service will be of the utmost importance.
There are geographic restrictions in other countries that can prevent you from streaming the game. A VPN bypasses these limitations by assigning your connection a U.S.-based IP address to make it appear that you’re streaming from home. A VPN can be combined with Sling TV for a better streaming experience. Our suggestion is NordVPN. While there is no traditional free trial , NordVPN gives customers a 30-day money-back guarantee. Try it out today.
Editors' Recommendations Georgia Bulldogs vs. Tennessee Volunteers live stream: watch college football for free 2023 Feast Week live stream: watch Thanksgiving college basketball for free New York Jets vs. Las Vegas Raiders live stream: watch the NFL for free Michigan Wolverines vs. Penn State Nittany Lions live stream: watch college football for free Los Angeles Clippers vs. Dallas Mavericks live stream: watch the NBA for free Entertainment College basketball fans are in for an early season treat when the No. 12 Arizona Wildcats (1-0) travel east to play the No. 2 Duke Blue Devils (1-0) on Friday night. The NCAA basketball game will be played in front of a raucous crowd at Cameron Indoor Stadium in Durham, North Carolina. ESPN Bet lists Duke as a 5.5-point favorite.
A home-and-home two-game series is rare this early in the season, so give credit to Arizona and Duke for signing this agreement. 2023's matchup will be played at Duke, and 2024's matchup will take place at Arizona's home gym. The Blue Devils are expected to be title contenders after returning four key players from last year's tournament team. Arizona will also be in contention come March as one of the best teams in the Pac-12.
Watch the Arizona vs. Duke live stream on ESPN2 Entertainment Man City takes on Young Boys today in the Champions League group stages. It seems almost certain that Man City will triumph with the team playing at home and also seemingly unstoppable right now. While there's still a chance for upset, it's going to be one to watch, especially for fans. Below, we've got all the best ways to watch the Man City vs Young Boys live stream, no matter where you are in the world. That means the ideal method to watch when in the US, UK, Canada, and Australia, as well as if you're traveling right now.
What time is Man City vs Young Boys? Man City vs Young Boys kicks off at the Etihad Stadium in Manchester on Tuesday November 7. The game starts at 3PM ET/12PM PT/8PM GMT. In Australia, that means an early morning kick off fixture of 7AM AEDT on November 8.
How to watch Man City vs Young Boys in the US If you want to watch the Champions League in the US, you need to sign up for Paramount Plus. It's the home of all Champions League games even if it is a smaller streaming service than some of the competition. Despite that, it hosts plenty of major sporting events so it's ideal for more than just soccer. Frequently, movies and TV shows are added to the service so keep an eye on what's new on Paramount Plus with many movies and TV shows added regularly. If it's just Man City vs Young Boys that you want to see, you can rely on a Paramount Plus free trial to do so. The trial only lasts seven days but that's sufficient for watching the match and getting a taste of what else Paramount Plus has to offer.
How to watch Man City vs Young Boys in the UK For UK viewers, TNT Sports is the new destination of Champions League soccer. It was previously known as BT Sports so if you had access to that, you'll still be able to watch the Champions League. For everyone else, you'll need to sign up for Discovery Premium+ which costs £29.99 per month. No free trial exists but it's a rolling contract so you're only committed to 30 days at a time. It's also possible to sign up through Amazon Prime if you prefer to do it that way.
Entertainment Newcastle takes on Dortmund today with Newcastle coming off the back of a great 1-0 victory over Arsenal in the Premier League last weekend. The downside for the England side? When they met Dortmund in October, they lost 1-0 so there's a certain amount of vengeance here. Whoever you're backing, the two closely matched sides are sure to be appealing. We've got all you need to know about how to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle online. Whether you're based in the US, UK, Canada, or Australia, we're here to help.
What time is Dortmund vs Newcastle? Dortmund vs Newcastle kicks off at Dortmund's stadium -- Signal Iduna Park -- on Tuesday November 7. Kick off time is 12.45PM ET/9.45AM PT/5.45PM GMT with the game kicking off at 4.45AM AEDT November 8 in Australia.
How to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle in the US In the US, Paramount Plus hosts all the Champions League games in the US for this season. It's a smaller streaming service than some of the others, but it has a growing selection of sports events so it's great for fans of soccer and more. Alongside that, it's a good idea to keep on top of what's new on Paramount Plus with many movies and TV shows added regularly. Even better, if you solely want to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle, you can do so for free thanks to a Paramount Plus free trial. It lasts for seven days and gives you full access to the streaming service so you can see what it offers that might appeal to you, alongside the Champions League.
How to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle in the UK In the UK, TNT Sports is where to go to see the Champions League. It was formerly called BT Sports so if you previously had access to that service, you'll have access to TNT Sports. Otherwise, it's available through Discovery+ Premium. The service costs £29.99 per month with it also available through Amazon Prime if you prefer to sign up that way. There's no Discovery+ Premium free trial available but you can sign up on a 30-day rolling contract so you're not tied in.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
