Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 movies on Hulu that are perfect to watch in the fall By Dan Girolamo Close Hulu’s library of films is an impressive mix of originals and hits from popular companies like Disney, 20th Century Studios, Warner Bros., Searchlight Pictures, and Neon. This fall, Hulu has added new thrillers and horror films for the Halloween season. However, there are plenty of action, comedy, and dramas to watch if horror is not your thing.
The Boogeyman (2023) Sleepless in Seattle (1993) No One Will Save You (2023) Theater Camp (2023) A Haunting in Venice (2023) From 2023 horror films like The Boogeyman and A Haunting in Venice to classic romantic comedies such as Sleepless in Seattle , these films represent some of the best movies on Hulu.
 Below, we selected five movies streaming on Hulu that are perfect to watch in the fall.
The Boogeyman (2023) 20th Century Studios Who said spooky season only happened in October? Horror is good to watch all year long, especially in the fall. The most prolific horror author is Stephen King, and 2023 marked the release of The Boogeyman , based on his 1973 short story of the same name.
5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 5 movies leaving Hulu in October you have to watch 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in October Will Harper and his two daughters, Sadie Harper (Sophie Thatcher) and Sawyer (Vivien Lyra Blair), are struggling to cope with the sudden death of the children’s mother. At their house, Will, a therapist, is visited by a strange man named Lester Billings (David Dastmalchian), who says his three children were killed by a supernatural creature, “The Boogeyman.” Unfortunately for the Sawyer family, the Boogeyman is real, and Lester brings it to their house, where it tries to prey on their fear and suffering.
The Boogeyman is a solid B-movie with enough thrills to keep you engaged.
Stream The Boogeyman on Hulu.
Sleepless in Seattle (1993) TriStar Pictures Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan in a romantic comedy from Nora Ephron. It truly doesn’t get better than that. In Sleepless in Seattle , Sam Baldwin (Hanks) and his young son Jonah (Ross Mallinger) move from Chicago to Seattle after Sam’s wife dies from cancer. On Christmas Eve night, Jonah calls into a radio show talk show to talk about his grieving father. Surprisingly, Sam confesses his feelings to the radio host, gaining sympathy from thousands of women listening at home.
One of those women is Annie Reed (Ryan), a newspaper reporter who falls in love with Sam and his story. Despite her engagement to Walter (Bill Pullman), Annie writes a letter to Sam asking him to meet her at the Empire State Building on Valentine’s Day. It’s a testament to Hanks’ and Ryan’s charm and likability that they can have elite chemistry despite being in one scene together.
Stream Sleepless in Seattle on Hulu.
No One Will Save You (2023) 20th Century Studios The streaming surprise of the year is No One Will Save You , the sci-fi thriller from writer-director Brian Duffield ( Underwater , Love and Monsters ). Brynn (Kaitlyn Dever) lives alone as a seamstress in her childhood home, grieving the deaths of her mother and best friends. Also, Brynn is ostracized by the town for mysterious reasons. One night, Brynn discovers an alien intruder in her home. This leads to more aliens arriving in the town, taking Brynn on a wild journey as she fights to protect her home.
No One Will Save You relies on atmosphere and sound to build suspense since there is little dialogue. This unique approach to the film works in its favor, anchored by a spectacular performance from Dever.
No One Will Save You has garnered praise from two giants in the horror community: Stephen King and Guillermo del Toro.
Stream No One Will Save You on Hulu.
Theater Camp (2023) Searchlight Pictures When Joan Rubinsky (Amy Sedaris), the owner of an upstate New York summer theatre camp, falls into a coma, her inexperienced and clumsy son, Troy (Jimmy Tatro), comes in and runs the camp. Additionally, the camp is struggling financially, so Troy gets to work on raising money to save it from foreclosure.
Leading the campers is the eclectic staff, which includes Amos (Ben Platt) and Rebecca-Diane (Molly Gordon), best friends in charge of the productions; Janet Walch ( Bottoms star Ayo Edebiri), a stage combat coach who lied on her resume to get the job; and Glenn Winthrop (Noah Galvin), a stagehand with dreams of becoming a dancer.
Theater Camp is a love letter to theater kids, but it has enough laughs and heart that non-theater kids who watch will appreciate the humor.
Stream Theater Camp on Hulu.
A Haunting in Venice (2023) 20th Century Studios Kenneth Branagh loves his Agatha Christie adaptations. Branagh played Christie’s most famous detective, Hercule Poirot, in 2017’s Murder on the Orient Express and 2022’s Death on the Nile.
 For 2023’s A Haunting in Venice , Branagh leaned into supernatural and horror elements to lead his latest whodunnit.
Poirot is retired and living in Venice in the late 1940s. Poirot is invited by crime novelist Ariadne Oliver (Tina Fey) to a séance at a haunted palazzo on Halloween. When one of the guests is murdered, Poirot is once again tasked with solving the mystery. However, dark secrets, mysterious entities, and sinister shadows attempt to stop Poirot from finding the truth.
Stream A Haunting in Venice on Hulu.
Editors' Recommendations 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 5 Netflix movies that are perfect to watch in the fall 5 movies leaving Netflix in October you have to watch 5 great Robin Williams movies you should watch right now 5 underrated movies on Netflix you need to watch in October Hulu Streaming Services Entertainment Who is the best actress in Hollywood? If you poll 100 people, names like Meryl Streep, Cate Blanchett, Kate Winslet, Viola Davis, and Frances McDormand will be brought up. However, the most versatile actress in Hollywood is arguably Emily Blunt. The English actress does it all, from summer action movies and rom-coms to dramas and horror. How many actresses could play Mary Poppins, Kitty Oppenheimer, Emily Charlton, and Rita Vrataski? Not many! Blunt will next appear in October's Pain Hustlers, the upcoming drama that will stream on Netflix as part of its 2023 movie slate. Before Pain Hustlers, here are five great Emily Blunt movies you should watch, including a crime drama from Taylor Sheridan and one of the best mainstream horrors of the last decade.
The Devil Wears Prada (2006) Entertainment This week, Kenneth Branagh’s Hercule Poirot returns to the big screen in A Haunting in Venice. The film, based on Agatha Christie’s 1969 novel Hallowe'en Party, picks up with Branagh’s Poirot 10 years after the events of 2022’s Death on the Nile. It follows him as he’s slowly but surely drawn out of his self-imposed retirement by, at first, a séance, and then a brutal murder. As far as mysteries go, A Haunting in Venice is fairly standard, but it’s the film’s horror edge, as well as the gothic atmosphere it creates, that truly separates it from so many other movies like it.
That doesn’t, however, mean there aren’t a few movies that are capable of offering, at the very least, a similar experience. The following five mystery films should, in fact, satisfy anyone who leaves A Haunting in Venice in the mood for something in the same vein.
Clue (1985) Clue (1985) ORIGINAL TRAILER [HD 1080p] Entertainment One of the many benefits of Netflix is the endless streaming options for movies in genres, including action, horror, sports, comedy, and romance. One genre that continues to add to its expanding library is sci-fi. From thrillers, like Spiderhead and The Titan, to action-adventures, like 65 and Star Trek, the sci-fi section on Netflix hosts multiple subgenres to satisfy all types of moviegoers.
For September, we curated a list of five sci-fi movies available on Netflix that should be seen this month. Some of our selections include a riveting tale from Denis Villeneuve, a political allegory from Bong Joon-ho, and a moral dilemma set in space.
Arrival (2016) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
