Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 3 sci-fi movies on Tubi you need to watch in November By Dan Girolamo Close As the calendar turns to November, many streaming services will gear their programming to reflect the holidays. However, there will still be other genres readily available.
Tubi , for example, still has a great selection of sci-fi films. As a FAST service , Tubi customers can access the service for free and watch programs with ads.
Rise of the Planet of the Apes (2011) The Thing (1982) Pacific Rim: Uprising (2018) Sci-fi fans need to watch these three films in November: a reboot of a storied franchise from the 1960s and 1970s, an iconic horror film from John Carpenter, and a sequel to Guillermo del Toro’s monster movie.
Rise of the Planet of the Apes (2011) 20th Century Fox Tim Burton’s Planet of the Apes remake in 2001 was a commercial hit, but 20th Century Fox decided to pass on a sequel due to the negative reviews and confusing ending. Burton also said he would rather “ jump out of the window ” than direct a sequel. A decade later, the studio rebooted the franchise with Rise of the Planet of the Apes , a far superior film to the 2001 adaptation.
3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Peacock you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Hulu you need to watch in November In San Francisco, scientist Will Rodman (James Franco) is experimenting with drugs on apes in hopes that they will cure his father’s (John Lithgow) Alzheimer’s disease. Will takes in an infant ape named Caesar (Andy Serkis), who grows into an intelligent creature after being exposed to the drugs. After a public confrontation ends badly, Caesar is sent to live in captivity, where he leads an uprising against the humans. The gamble to reboot the franchise paid off as Rise spawned three sequels, including 2024’s Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes.
Stream Rise of the Planet of the Apes on Tubi.
The Thing (1982) Universal Pictures Tubi loves Carpenter. As one of the most influential horror and sci-directors, can you blame Tubi for their admiration toward Carpenter? After watching 1981’s Escape from New York on Tubi , stick with Carpenter and head to the next film in his filmography, The Thing.
 At an Antarctica research station, a group of scientists comes into contact with a mysterious sled dog controlled by a strange humanoid organism that can shapeshift into the bodies of its hosts.
The human residents at the station include pilot R.J. MacReady (Kurt Russell), biologist Blair (Wilford Brimley), and mechanic Childs (Keith David). The scientists kill the dog after it attacks, but the mysterious creature transfers to another host. The organism continues assimilating within the camp, wreaking havoc on its members. 40 years later, The Thing is considered a masterpiece, with visuals and special effects ahead of its time.
Stream The Thing on Tubi.
Pacific Rim: Uprising (2018) Universal Pictures The Pacific Rim franchise boils down to this idea: What if humans could fight Godzilla with giant robots? After del Toro’s Pacific Rim in 2013, Steven S. DeKnight helmed the 2018 sequel, Pacific Rim: Uprising.
 Set 10 years after the climactic battle in the first film, Jake Pentecost (John Boyega) — son of Stacker Pentecost (Idris Elba) – is failing to live up to his father’s legacy. Instead of piloting Jaegers, Jake steals their parts and sells them on the black market.
After he’s caught and threatened with a prison sentence, Jake agrees to train future Jaeger pilots. Yet, rogue Jaegers threaten to disrupt the peace by unleashing the Kaiju (giant sea monsters) back into the world. Left with no choice, Jake leads a new team of pilots to defeat the stronger, deadlier Kaiju. Fans of the original will appreciate that Uprising doubles down on the fight scenes.
Stream Pacific Rim: Uprising on Tubi.
Editors' Recommendations 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 underrated shows on Netflix you need to watch in November Tubi Entertainment If you're coming to Hulu for your action fix, then you've come to the right place. Hulu may be owned and operated by Disney, but this streaming service is about as far from the Mickey Mouse Club as you can get. Hulu has all of the R-rated action flicks that just wouldn't fit in at Disney+, Deadpool movies and Logan notwithstanding.
This month, two of our action picks are based on comic books, while the third is an all-timer in the action genre that won't be hanging around on Hulu for much longer. These are the three action movies on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Blade II (2001) Entertainment Sci-fi movies are available in abundance. There are some great classic sci-fi movies you can watch on streaming services like Prime Video. But there are also compelling new ones that might be worth checking out.
If you’re looking for something relatively new and off the beaten path, three sci-fi movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November include one that debuted just this year, a popcorn thriller disaster sci-fi flick, and a totally under-the-radar movie from an independent filmmaker.
I’ll Be Watching (2023) I'LL BE WATCHING | Official HD Trailer (2023) | THRILLER | Film Threat Trailers Entertainment By the 1980s, science fiction had become a much less niche proposition. Several major movies had proven that it was possible to make popular versions of these stories, and TV followed suit shortly after that.
While there were several immensely popular sci-fi series airing during this period, a few also fell under the radar. These three shows are perfect examples of why sci-fi storytelling became much more popular in the 1980s across a wide array of different formats, whether it was in the U.S. or the U.K.
Red Dwarf (1988) Red Dwarf - Series 1 Trailer Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
