Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 5 underrated movies on Netflix you need to watch in November By Dan Girolamo Close What are the all-time most popular movies on Netflix? Red Notice , Don’t Look Up, The Adam Project, Bird Box , and The Gray Man are the five most popular films in English on the streaming service. But if you want to know what subscribers are watching on a daily basis, the streamer has a carousel dedicated to the most popular movies on Netflix.
Mission: Impossible III (2006) The Siege of Jadotville (2016) Role Models (2008) The Choice (2016) Blackhat (2015) Not every movie can be in the top 10, however. There are over 3,600 movies on Netflix.
 Sometimes, good movies are hidden at the end of carousels or toward the bottom of the page. All you need to know is where to find them. For November, we selected five underrated movies on Netflix you need to watch. Our list includes a Tom Cruise staple, a vulgar comedy with compassion, and an action thriller ahead of its time.
Mission: Impossible III (2006) Paramount Pictures When ranking the Mission: Impossible movies , Mission: Impossible III is one of the weaker entries. However, that’s a testament to the quality of the movies because the third film is not bad. It lacks the memorable action sequences that have become the franchise’s bread-and-butte4r, but Mission: Impossible III features the scariest villain in the series, Owen Davian, played by the late Philip Seymour Hoffman.
5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) Don’t let these 3 November hidden streaming movie gems fly under your radar Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise) has retired from the field to settle down with his fiancée, nurse Julia Meade (Michelle Monaghan). Ethan’s retirement is short-lived as he’s recruited to rescue one of his protégés behind enemy lines. This leads Ethan to Davian, a ruthless arms dealer searching for a biological hazard called the “Rabbit’s Foot.” Hoffman is legitimately great in this film, and the opening scene is some of the best work by a screen villain in the 21st century.
Stream Mission: Impossible III on Netflix.
The Siege of Jadotville (2016) Netflix It’s hard to mess up a war movie. At worst, most bad war movies have some redeeming graces, like an entertaining battle or likable characters.
The Siege of Jadotville , however, goes beyond that and is one of the best war movies on Netflix.
 Based on true events, The Siege of Jadotville follows “A” Company, a small group of the Irish Army’s 35th Battalion stationed near a United Nations compound outside Jadotville in the Congo.
Amid civil war, French and Belgian mercenaries team up with Katangese soldiers to attack the Irish at Jadotville, which contains a wealth of uranium deposits. The Irish have about 150 men, while the opposing army has 3,000. Yet, surrender is not in “A” Company’s DNA as they choose to fight back.
The Siege of Jadotville is a fitting tribute to the forgotten Irish troops who showed immense courage and bravery.
Stream The Siege of Jadotville on Netflix.
Role Models (2008) Universal Pictures A movie as funny as Role Models should not have this much heart. Yet, this R-rated comedy successfully captures the struggles to fit in while making you laugh the entire time. Paul Rudd and Seann William Scott star as Danny and Wheeler, two salesmen who crash their company car after a failed presentation. The judge gives them two options: jail or 150 hours of community service.
The two friends choose the latter and join a mentorship program. Danny is assigned Augie Farks (Christopher Mintz-Plasse), a shy teenager with a passion for medieval role-playing, and Wheeler is paired with Ronnie Shields (Bobb’e J. Thompson), a young boy with a dirty mouth and bad attitude. Rudd and Scott are hilarious as a duo and will make you wish they made more films together.
Stream Role Models on Netflix.
The Choice (2016) Lionsgate There’s nothing wrong with a good cry, so who better to force some tears down your face than Nicholas Sparks? The iconic author’s 2007 novel The Choice was adapted into a 2016 feature film. Set in North Carolina, The Choice stars Benjamin Walker as Travis Shaw, a handsome and charming veterinarian who gets a new neighbor, Gabby Holland ( The Twin’s Teresa Palmer), a driven and spirited medical student.
These two opposites seem like an ill-fitting match since Travis is a ladies’ man while Gabby has a boyfriend. However, opposites attract, and the two neighbors can’t deny their affection for each other, which leads to a decision that will change the rest of their lives.
The Choice is not The Notebook.
 It’s a formulaic romantic drama, but its tale of star-crossed lovers in an idyllic location covers up its weaknesses.
Stream The Choice on Netflix.
Blackhat (2015) Universal Pictures / Universal Pictures Michael Mann’s filmography features iconic classics such as Heat , The Insider , and Collateral.
 Unfortunately, 2015’s Blackhat is not on that list. The action thriller involving cybercriminals flopped commercially and critically. Mann even took responsibility for Blackhat’s failure in a recent interview with Variety.
 Yet, a film crafted by Mann is still better than most movies in 2023.
Blackhat stars Chris Hemsworth as Nick Hathaway, an incarcerated hacker recruited to help the FBI find a group of cyberterrorists who hacked a nuclear plant and a derivatives marketplace. Hathaway is brought to Hong Kong to find the hackers behind the attacks, but his investigation uncovers a global conspiracy with deadly consequences. There is no need to apologize for this film, Mr. Mann.
Blackhat is an entertaining action thriller with a cyberterrorism storyline that feels relevant in 2023.
Stream Blackhat on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies leaving Peacock in November you have to watch The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 5 best death game movies you should watch right now The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) Entertainment For decades, video game adaptations have been ridiculed for failing to live up to the games that inspired them, or by the way they flopped at the box office. That changed in a big way this year, including the recent premiere of Five Nights At Freddy's, which defied expectations and had a huge opening weekend despite being available on Peacock on the same day.
Many of the best video games were already been optioned as films and TV shows prior to 2023. But if there was ever a time to capitalize on the trend, it's now. The Hollywood strikes are over, and video games are an IP mine that the studios haven't fully exploited yet. And for our money, these are the seven video game adaptations that we can't wait to see.
BioShock Entertainment Amazon Prime Video has so much content to watch that’s included with your standard Amazon Prime subscription. From comedies to dramas, Amazon originals, classic network shows, blockbuster movies, and more, the options are endless.
If you’re looking for something that leans more towards the dramatic side, there are three dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November. One is a gritty DC Comics superhero flick, one is a Tom Cruise classic, and the third is one of the most iconic films ever made.
The Batman (2022) THE BATMAN – Main Trailer Entertainment Even with its extensive Black Stories collection, finding the best Black movies on Netflix takes a little work. Fortunately, we're always scouring the library to find the best movies available for your movie night, and if you'd like to celebrate Black stories, creators, and actors, this list is for you. Read on to find something to watch tonight! Looking for more films and shows that illustrate the Black experience? Check out our roundups of the best Black shows and movies to stream across all platforms.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
