Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Guides How to stop spam calls on iPhone and Android phones By Jesse Hollington Close While regulators are doing everything they can to stop robocalls in their tracks , it's an uphill battle, and some calls will inevitably slip through and make it to your phone.
How to block unknown callers on an iPhone How to block calls from specific numbers on an iPhone How to filter and detect spam calls on iPhone How to block spam calls on an Android phone How to block calls from specific numbers on an Android phone How to block unidentified callers on an Android phone Other tools for stopping spam calls on Android Fortunately, both Apple and Google have provided features in their respective mobile operating systems to help you manage unwanted calls. From letting you manually block specific numbers outright to intelligently filtering out calls that are more likely to be spam, there's actually quite a bit that your iPhone or Android handset can do to keep your day from being interrupted by unwanted calls.
Difficulty Duration What You Need An iPhone running iOS 13 or later An Android phone running Android 6 or later The two companies take slightly different approaches to this problem. Google has built its own spam filtering system into the Android operating system that does a pretty solid job on its own, while Apple forces you to either block every unknown number or rely on third-party apps to do the heavy lifting of detecting spam calls for you. However, we've covered the options available on both platforms that you can use to increase the chances that your phone will only ring when it's somebody you actually want to talk to.
Are you also dealing with spam texts and aren't sure how to stop them? For that, see our other guide on how to stop spam texts on iPhone and Android phones.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends How to block unknown callers on an iPhone While it may be a slightly radical approach, one of the easiest ways to prevent spam calls is to block all calls from unknown numbers. Since that's where most unwanted calls come from, it's an easy way to avoid them altogether, although it also risks blocking legitimate callers. Apple provides an easy way to turn this on, and it's pretty intelligent in how it determines if a number is "known." Numbers in your contacts list qualify, as do any numbers you've made an outgoing call to. However, your iPhone will also check your Messages and Mail apps to see if you've exchanged texts with someone or if they've shared their phone number with you in an email. For instance, if you've exchanged emails with someone with their number in their signature block, their calls will still ring through, even if you've never spoken to the person on the phone. Here's how to set this up: Step 1: Open the Settings app on your iPhone.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 2: Scroll down and select Phone.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes The iPhone is getting out of control Step 3: Select Silence Unknown Callers.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 4: Toggle the switch on the next screen to turn it on.
The description under the setting notes that calls from unknown numbers will be "silenced," but that's a bit misleading as you won't see the incoming call appear at all. Instead, the caller is immediately sent to voicemail, usually without hearing a single ring on their end.
However, the silenced call still appears in your recent calls list, and if the caller leaves a voicemail, it will show up in your Visual Voicemail normally. Basically, it looks just like a missed call, except that your iPhone never rings. This is different from how calls are handled when you've explicitly blocked a number, which is likely why Apple uses the word "silence" to describe this feature. We'll discuss how to block calls in the next section.
How to block calls from specific numbers on an iPhone If telemarketers or spam callers have been harassing you from a specific number, you can block that number specifically to prevent any future calls from ringing through. Here's how: Step 1: Open the Phone app and select the Recents button at the bottom.
Step 2: Locate the number you would like to block calls from, and select the blue info button to the right of the time or date.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 3: Select Block this Caller.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 4: From the pop-up that appears, select Block Contact to confirm.
This will block incoming cellular calls, FaceTime calls, and text messages from the selected number. Unlike silenced calls, incoming calls from blocked numbers will not appear in your recent calls list. While the caller will be sent to voicemail, any message they leave will be saved to a "Blocked Messages" folder that's tucked away at the bottom of your Visual Voicemail list.
You can view and manage your list of blocked numbers by going to Settings > Phone > Blocked Contacts.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends How to filter and detect spam calls on iPhone Unfortunately, Apple doesn't provide any built-in call spam filtering on the iPhone, but it does offer hooks for third-party apps to help fill the gap.
A search for call-filtering apps on the App Store will turn up plenty of options, including carrier-specific apps like Verizon's Call Filter, full-featured security suites like Malwarebytes, and a whole collection of smaller apps dedicated to blocking calls from spammers and telemarketers. If you opt for one of these, just be sure to read their privacy policies carefully. Some have been caught sharing your contact list and sending other private data to third parties , so be sure to pick one you can trust.
Once you've installed at least one of these apps, a new Call Blocking & Identification section will appear in Settings > Phone that can be used to give them permission to block calls and provide caller ID information. The individual options are specific to each app, and many offer the option of either blocking suspicious calls entirely or letting them through with a label so you identify spam calls and avoid answering them. You can also install multiple call filtering apps and set the order in which they're used to check numbers from unknown callers.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends How to block spam calls on an Android phone Unlike Apple, Google offers a spam filtering system in the Android Phone app that can help identify spam calls. While it's not perfect, it's less extreme than blocking all unknown numbers from ringing through to your phone. Here's how to set it up.
Step 1: Open the Phone app on your device.
Step 2: Select the three-dot button in the upper-right corner to open the menu.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 3: Select Settings.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 4: Select Caller ID & Spam.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 5: From here, you have two options: Toggle the switch beside See caller and spam ID to tag incoming spam calls.
Toggle the switch beside Filter spam calls to block suspected spam calls entirely.
With "See caller and spam ID" enabled, all incoming calls will still ring through to your handset; those that are spam will be clearly identified as such, both on the incoming call screen and in your recent calls list. You'll also get a warning if you attempt to place a call to a suspect spam number. If you opt to "Filter spam calls" then they'll be sent directly to your voicemail.
How to block calls from specific numbers on an Android phone If calls from a telemarketer or spammer are still getting past Google's spam call filters, you can block those numbers outright and optionally report them as spam.
Step 1: Open the Phone app on your device.
Step 2: Long press on the number that you would like to block.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 3: From the pop-up menu that appears, select Block/report spam.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 4: In the confirmation dialog, select Block to confirm that you would like to block the number and report it as spam.
Alternatively, you can uncheck the "Report call as spam" button if you want to block the number but don't want to report it to Google's anti-spam service.
You can manage your list of blocked numbers from Phone > (three-dot menu) > Settings > Blocked numbers.
How to block unidentified callers on an Android phone Sadly, Android doesn't provide any way to silence calls from all unknown numbers the way the iPhone does. While that's arguably less necessary with Google's more sophisticated anti-spam features, it's still a nice touch for those who would rather not be bothered by calls from folks they don't know.
However, you can choose to block calls from "unidentified" numbers — those that come in with no phone number attached. This is usually a result of somebody blocking their caller ID, but it can also sometimes occur with international calls or those from older phone networks or VoIP services that don't pass on the caller ID properly.
Step 1: Open the Phone app on your device.
Step 2: Select the three-dot button in the upper-right corner to open the menu.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 3: Select Blocked numbers.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 4: Toggle the switch beside Unknown to enable it.
Once enabled, any calls that come in without a proper caller ID will be silently sent to voicemail in the same way as calls from numbers you've specifically blocked.
Other tools for stopping spam calls on Android As with the iPhone, there are a considerable number of third-party apps available that can help you filter spam calls. However, unlike the iPhone, you probably don't need any of these unless you're using a version of Android that doesn't support spam filtering.
Google's anti-spam filtering does an admirable job of catching spam calls, so it should be enough for most folks. As we mentioned when discussing third-party call filtering apps on the iPhone, there are potential privacy pitfalls when using third-party apps, so if you're going down this road, be careful to read the developer's policies on sharing your information and choose one that you can trust.
Editors' Recommendations Qualcomm’s newest chip will bring AI to cheaper Android phones It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 How to unblock a number on your iPhone iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app Android Apple Apple iPhone Google How-To Guides Mobile Every year, we get a new iPhone; that’s just the way it goes. And one of the biggest upgrades each year is with the camera system.
Though the spotlight is typically on the Pro models of the iPhone, Apple gave us a pretty significant upgrade this year with the standard iPhone 15. Of course, it’s not as feature-packed as the iPhone 15 Pro, but Apple brought the Dynamic Island and USB-C to the regular iPhone 15, and even bumped up the camera to a whopping 48MP.
Mobile The iPhone has so many clever and fun little features that it's easy to miss some of them. One of the most whimsical features to come along in recent years is the ability to lift the subject of a photo away from the background so you can use it elsewhere — whether that's sharing it in an email, pasting it into a photo editing app, or even turning it into an iMessage sticker in iOS 17.
What's especially fascinating about this is that it seems like such a simple thing to do — and Apple does make it really easy — but there's a ton of number crunching going on under the hood to make it happen. This means you'll need an iPhone with a reasonably modern processor, but the good news is that it doesn't have to be the latest and greatest iPhone 15 Pro. While the insanely powerful A17 Pro chip in Apple's flagship smartphone surely helps things along, this feature can be used on any iPhone with an A12 Bionic chip or later, which goes back to the 2018 iPhone XS and iPhone XR.
Mobile Duolingo is a top-rated language-learning app known for its unique approach to learning. Unlike similar solutions, Duolingo makes learning fun and engaging by turning each step into a game. Whether using the app on your iPhone or Android, you can choose from over 30 languages to learn. Adding another language to your account is easy once you are ready to move on to the next one.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
