Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Keep it fresh: This bestselling vacuum sealer is 21% off for Prime Day By Erika Rawes Close If you’re in the market for kitchen gadgets, it’s smart to take advantage of Prime Day deals that can give you discounts on products like Instant Pots , air fryers , and vacuum sealers like the NutriChef PKVS Sealer. NutriChef offers a range of kitchen products from sous vide immersion circulators to air fryers, and Amazon has a vacuum sealer Prime Day deal on the NutriChef PKVS that reduces the normal $60 price down to $48.
This discount represents , and you can get this discount when you purchase the gadget on Amazon. On top of the savings you get with this vacuum sealer Prime Day deal, you will also save additional money simply by using this product.
Why you should buy this vacuum sealer Image used with permission by copyright holder The NutriChef PKVS Sealer comes as a starter kit, so it includes additional accessories in the package. You get an air suction hose, a wine stopper cork, five medium vacuum bags that are waterproof and reusable, as well as a bag roll for making custom-length bags that are also reusable and waterproof.
The hose and wine stopper cork make it possible for you to suction the air out of your bottles for longer-lasting wines, while the bags let you save foods for up to five times longer than just using zip-seal bags (according to lab testing). This means you have less food waste and more money savings, making this vacuum sealer Prime Day deal a wise investment over the long term.
You’ll have enough supplies to last for as little as a month or as long as six months, but this will depend on how often you use the sealer. You can get replacement rolls of bags for less than $20 for a pack of two. If you plan on doing any sous vide cooking, having some extra bags might be a good idea. If you’re a wine-lover or you plan on making wine at home, having extra wine corks will allow you to save opened wines. You can buy a six-pack for less than $10.
The NutriChef sealer has a moist mode and a dry mode, allowing you to effectively seal everything from snack foods to marinated meats. There’s also a gentle mode for foods like berries that you don’t want to crush while sealing. The NutriChef is simple to operate, with labeled buttons and LED indicator lights to let you know when sealing is complete. It has an attractive design too, and it’ll look good on just about any kitchen countertop.
For anyone who’s into cooking gadgets, this is worth a look. It’s an ideal companion to one of the best sous vide machines , it can help portion ingredients for your favorite Instant Pot recipes , and most importantly, it saves on food waste.
Editors' Recommendations Black Friday Deal: Grab Eureka NEW400 wet-dry vac for cleaning all spills Early meal kit Black Friday deals from HelloFresh and more Holy smokes! This bundle of 240 AA and AAA batteries is 69% off Amazon Prime free trial: Get an entire month for free You’ll be shocked how cheap this Roomba is ahead of Black Friday Smart Home Amazon Amazon Prime Day Smart Home A cordless vacuum is becoming a necessity for most families as it's one of the easiest ways of cleaning your home. These machines will allow you to move from room to room without having to unplug each time, and they'll also let you reach every nook and cranny. If you think it's time to buy one, we've gathered some of the best cordless vacuum deals below, including Dyson cordless vacuums and cheaper alternatives. You'll have to act fast though, as we don't think these discounts will last for long.
Black+Decker Powerseries+ 16V Max -- $89, was $100 Black+Decker Powerseries+ 16V Max works great on all floor types, and you don't have to activate any special modes to make it happen. It has an auto-detect function that automatically adjusts suction power when you switch surfaces. It has an LED light to help you see crumbs on the ground, and an anti-tangle brush bar to deal with pet hair. The cordless vacuum also has a freestanding design, meaning it will balance on the floor attachment without leaning on a wall, making it easy to store.
Deals It would be almost impossible to make it through life these days without hearing about Amazon Prime because it is one of the largest ecommerce storefronts ever. What you really need to know is that the online retailer's premium subscription comes with a boatload of great benefits and services. You might be a bit less familiar with Amazon Prime Video, though. Prime Video is Amazon's streaming service that competes with the likes of Netflix and Hulu, offering a wide variety of shows, movies, and Prime original series. There are a couple of ways to get Prime Video, but it's not free. However, if you're here, you're probably looking for an answer to the burning question: Is there an Amazon Prime Video free trial? We've got the answer, and more, below.
Is there an Amazon Prime Video free trial? There is indeed an Amazon Prime Video free trial, but it's tied into the Prime free trial, which lasts for a month and may or may not be available to you. To see if you're eligible, you'll need to and check. The general rule is that the Prime free trial (and by extension, an Amazon Prime Video free trial) is available to Amazon accounts that have either never signed up for a Prime trial or have not had Prime -- either a trial or paid membership -- any time in the last 12 months.
Smart Home One of the best Black Friday deals for coffee lovers is over at Amazon. Today, you can buy the Keurig K-Mini Single Serve Coffee Maker for just $50 saving 50% off the regular price of $100. One of the best Keurig deals for those who like to enjoy a cup of Joe every morning, here's everything else you need to know before you hit the buy button.
Why you should buy the Keurig K-Mini Single Serve Coffee Maker Keurig makes some of the best coffee makers around making them a must-own for coffee lovers. With the Keurig K-Mini Single Serve Coffee Maker, it will fit pretty much anywhere thanks to being less than five inches wide so it's perfect for those with small apartments or kitchens.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
