Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Portal and Portal TV Prime Day deals — devices start at $35 By Erika Rawes Close You can find Prime Day deals on a lot of Amazon items like Echo speakers and displays, but there are also items that sometimes get overlooked. We found Meta’s Portal TV on sale for a huge discount, selling for only $57. This Portal TV Prime Day deal is a 62% savings off of the regular price of $149. This isn’t the only Meta Portal device selling for a major discount though. The Meta Portal 10-inch model is also on sale for Prime Day for only $35, which is 80% off of its regular price of $179. Both of these Prime Day Facebook Portal deals are only available to Prime members for one day, so you’ll need to act quickly if you want a Portal or Portal TV.
Buy Portal Buy Portal TV Why you should buy the Meta Portal or Portal TV Aside from the rock-bottom prices you get with this Portal TV Prime Day Deal, Portal devices also have a lot to offer. They offer video calling, smart home control, the Alexa virtual assistant, music, news, and a slew of other features. They can even be good for business use. Meta is rebranding its Portal devices as business devices and discontinuing the consumer line, but it will still provide support for residential customers over the long term.
While the regular 10-inch Portal has its own built-in screen, the Portal TV connects to your TV screen so you can make the screen as large as you want. Communicate through applications like Zoom , Messenger , and WhatsApp , and disable the mic and cover the camera when you want to ensure your privacy. You can basically turn your TV into a smart display equipped with video calling and a smart camera that adjusts automatically. The larger screen is ideal for conference calls, family calls, or group calls too. If you have a Portal TV, you also have access to applications like Netflix, Prime Video, and Sling for watching shows and movies. This means you won’t necessarily need a separate streaming device like a Fire TV Stick or Roku.
If you’d prefer a smart display with its own screen, you might want to choose the $35 Prime Day Facebook Portal deal instead. This deal lets you choose between a black or white Meta Portal 10-inch display. The 10-inch Portal can serve as a family device for video calling, entertainment, smart home control, and organization, but it also works as supplemental gadget for those who work at home. The Meta Portal has a screen for conference calls and screen sharing via Microsoft Teams , Webex, Zoom and Workplace. Plus, you can take advantage of the AR library for background blurring and other call features. There is a camera slider cover on the 10-inch Portal as well to promote privacy.
The Portal TV Prime Day Deal gives you a $149 for $57, and the Meta Portal Prime Day deal is only $35 for a device that typically costs $179. Prime members can take advantage of these deals right now.
Buy Portal Buy Portal TV Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Amazon Prime Video Free Trial: Stream for a month for free Best OLED TV deals: Save on LG C3, Samsung S90C, and more Best 75-inch TV deals: Get a large screen for under $500 This bundle deal saves you $100 on a Ring doorbell and security camera Audio / Video Smart Home Amazon Amazon Prime Day Smart Home Prime Day may have come and gone, but there’s still some great smart home deals left behind in its wake. One of them is on the second generation Amazon Echo Show 8, a smart display with an HD screen and Alexa compatibility. It’s currently discounted to just $70 at Best Buy, which is a savings of $60 from its regular price of $130. Purchasers will also get four free months of Amazon Music Unlimited, as well as free shipping.
Why you should buy the Amazon Echo Show (2nd Gen) A smart display can make a great centerpiece for all of your smart home devices, and while there’s newer Echo Show models on the market such as the Amazon Echo Show 5, this second generation Echo Show 8 still has a lot of great features that make it useful today. It’s only been a couple of years since this second generation model was released, and it improved greatly upon the first generation Echo Show at the time. At the heart of the device is its eight-inch touchscreen, which comes in at Full HD resolution. I also has adaptive color and stereo speakers that make things like movies and video chats more interactive.
Smart Home If you were planning to purchase cleaning devices from Amazon's October Prime Day deals, you should know that some of the offers remain online even after Prime Big Deal Days 2023 has ended. For example, the iRobot Braava Jet M6 robot mop, originally $450, is still discounted by $101, so you'll only have to pay $349. There's no telling how long this lowered price will stay though, so if you want this robot mop to keep your floors spotless, you're going to have to complete the purchase for it as soon as possible.
Why you should buy the iRobot Braava Jet M6 robot mop The iRobot Braava Jet M6 is one of the best robot mops because it always does an amazing job at cleaning floors. It's equipped with a Precision Jet Spray that loosens and dirt and sticky messes without getting your furniture or walls wet, as well as disposable pads for mopping and sweeping that you can replace with reusable pads if you prefer. Using these, the robot mop will be able to clean liquid spills, mud from shoes and paws, and many other types of messes.
Audio / Video It's around that time of year when we start seeing some excellent deals ahead of the major promotions and the holiday season. If you're patient, you can grab some fantastic bundles, like offers that include a new TV and sound bar or home surround system for the ultimate home theater setup. Wouldn't you know it, right now, LG is offering precisely those types of deals, and we wanted to call them out, giving you the opportunity to save big. Both offers include an OLED TV and a sound bar, although the models differ, and these deals will be available until the end of the year -- December 31st.
Save $200 on a bundle with GX sound bar and qualifying G2 or G3 OLED TVs Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
