Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Alexa Guard vs. Alexa Guard Plus By Erika Rawes Close First announced in 2019, Alexa Guard brings a second layer of protection to your smart home by listening for certain sounds that indicate there’s an emergency. The service has a few limitations, but Amazon has addressed those drawbacks with Alexa Guard Plus — a premium subscription that offers tons of enhanced features. But what exactly is the difference between Alexa Guard and Alexa Guard Plus? We break it down in this guide.
What is Alexa Guard? What is Alexa Guard Plus? What’s the difference between Alexa Guard and Alexa Guard Plus? How to sign up for Alexa Guard Plus What is Alexa Guard? Alexa Guard listens out for the sounds of breaking glass, smoke detectors, and carbon monoxide (CO) detectors. During setup, you can indicate which sounds you want Alexa to listen for, so if you only want Alexa to listen for breaking glass and not fire alarms, you can indicate that preference.
Once you set up Alexa Guard, just say, “ Alexa , I’m leaving,” to switch to away mode. This puts Alexa on alert and ready to guard your home.
Alexa vs. HomeKit: Which smart home platform is best? What is Amazon Alexa, and what can it do? Echo Pop vs. Nest Mini: which is the better smart speaker? If Alexa hears a danger sound, the assistant will send a 10-second audio clip to your phone. You can then decide what to do with that clip. You can use the drop-in feature to listen in on your home to check what’s going on, or you can call emergency services for help.
Alexa Guard integrates with some alarm systems (Ring Alarm, ADT Pulse, ADT Control, and Scout Alarm), and Alexa may be able to forward smart alerts to your provider. However, the Alexa Guard service is not a substitute for a security system, as it doesn’t integrate as well as a more advanced system.
What is Alexa Guard Plus? Alexa Guard Plus is a more advanced version of the Alexa Guard feature. It offers everything Alexa Guard offers, plus it can listen out for additional sounds, like activity noises.
Alexa Guard Plus can also play sounds (like a siren or barking dog) to deter unwanted visitors. The biggest benefit of Guard Plus is perhaps the available emergency helpline. You can say, “ Alexa , call for help,” and you’ll reach a trained emergency response agent who can help you request emergency responders (like an ambulance or the fire department).
What’s the difference between Alexa Guard and Alexa Guard Plus? Image used with permission by copyright holder For starters, Alexa Guard Plus has a fee of $5 per month (or $50 per year), while Alexa Guard is a free service.
Alexa Guard Plus provides hands-free calling to an emergency helpline, while Alexa Guard doesn’t provide the helpline service.
Alexa Guard only listens out for breaking glass and fire and CO alarms, while Alexa Guard Plus listens out for additional noises and also plays noises to deter potential intruders.
The free Alexa Guard service and Alexa Guard Plus are both available to use right now. If you’re a Ring Protect subscriber , “the Alexa Guard Plus subscription is free for U.S. Ring Protect Plus plan subscribers after your Ring and Amazon accounts have been linked together. Ring Protect Plus plans are available via Amazon.com and Ring.com for $10 a month or $100 a year.” If you want to use the Alexa Guard service, it works on Echo smart speakers and smart displays like the Echo, Echo Dot , Echo Plus , Echo Flex , Echo Show 5 , Echo Show 8 , and Echo Show 10.
How to sign up for Alexa Guard Plus Ready to sign up for Alexa Guard Plus? Simply open the Alexa app, navigate to the More menu, then select Settings.
 From here, click on Guard.
 This will take you through the steps needed to sign up for Alexa Guard Plus.
You’ll eventually be asked to enter an emergency address — and keep in mind you’ll need a device that supports Guard Plus (such as one of the Echo products listed above). Once all these steps are complete, your Guard Plus coverage will automatically begin.
Editors' Recommendations The best Alexa skills to use on your Amazon Echo in 2023 Adding AI to Alexa is the brain transplant we’ve all been waiting for Ring Battery Doorbell Plus vs. Ring Video Doorbell 4: which is the best video doorbell? How to connect smart home gadgets to your Amazon Alexa device Best Amazon Alexa accessories: lights, plugs, thermostats, cameras, and more Amazon Versus Smart Home The Echo Pop is the newest addition to the Amazon Echo family. It features a bold new design but still offers many of the same features found on the always-popular Echo Dot. However, there are a few key differences between these two products -- including pricing and audio performance.
Here’s a look at the Echo Pop and Echo Dot to help you decide which is best for your smart home, or if you should pick up the new Pop even if you already own the Dot.
Pricing and design Smart Home Amazon has agreed to pay $25 million to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to settle charges over privacy violations linked to its digital assistant, Alexa.
In a separate case, Amazon-owned Ring will pay $5.8 million for violations of users’ privacy.
Smart Home While Amazon Alexa is best known for its ability to give you updates on the news or dish out commands to the rest of your smart home, Alexa also works as a basic security system. This is known as Alexa Guard, and it's a great feature that comes bundled free with most Alexa devices.
When enabled, Alexa Guard provides tons of cool features, such as the ability to automatically turn your lights on and off while you're away from home or alert you when a smoke detector is going off. But how exactly does Alexa Guard work? And how do you enable it on your Alexa devices? Here’s a closer look at everything you need to know.
What is Alexa Guard, and what can it do? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
