Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best air purifiers By Erika Rawes and Patrick Hearn Close Pet dander and other allergens can build up in the air you breathe. These particles can become a problem if you have allergies, suffer from asthma, or have young children. Germs and dust particles can also affect air quality, but you can take steps to improve the quality of your indoor air. An air purifier works by filtering the air and catching pollutants, allergens, and other particles. Running an air purifier in your home can significantly improve the quality and cleanliness of your indoor air.
Our list of the best air purifiers includes options with HEPA or PECO filters, as well as additional features to help keep your air clean. We’ve included a variety of price ranges, so people who want an air filter can find one that fits their budget.
More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Honeywell InSight Series Automatically adjust power level VOC sensor Several sizes available Larger units become more expensive Honeywell has come out with quite a few air purifiers, and the InSight Series is one of our favorites because it provides a lot of features in a reasonably-priced unit. It has a clear panel display that’s easy to see from a distance, as it illuminates to let you see which cleaning level is active. Speaking of cleaning levels, the InSight has four different modes for germs, allergens, and general cleaning, as well as a turbo mode for quick and powerful air cleaning. InSight purifiers have a VOC sensor that monitors air quality. A light will illuminate red, yellow, or green depending on the room’s air quality, and there’s an auto-mode that monitors the VOC sensor, adjusting the optimal cleaning level accordingly. We tested this feature on the InSight, and it works exceptionally well, reliably cleaning the air and leaving rooms free of smoke, dust, and cooking smells.
The Honeywell InSight comes in different sizes for different spaces, whether you need to purify a medium-sized room, a large room, or an extra-large room. The medium-sized InSight purifier provides five air changes per hour in a 175-square-foot space, while the extra-large model can perform five air changes per hour in a 500-square-foot space. All of the models are relatively affordable, with the extra-large InSight priced at $349 retail (though you can often find it for much cheaper). The filter and pre-filter capture up to 99.97% of particles (0.3 microns or larger), and the filters aren’t too pricey to replace.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Medify MA-35 HEPA filter Several color options Reasonable price Wall-mounted design If you want an air purifier for a larger space that won’t break the bank, the MA-35 is worth a look. It can clean a 640-square-foot room in about 30 minutes, with a clean air delivery rate of 290. To put this purifier to the test, we filled a large living room-kitchen combo with fake Halloween smoke and then placed the MA-35 in the room and powered it on. Within about a minute, the MA-35 had the room completely cleared of visible smoke. You can feel the cleanliness when you use this purifier, with less dust on furnishings and cleaner-feeling air overall.
It uses high-grade H13 HEPA filters that remove an impressive 99.9% of particles (down to 0.1 microns). Given the performance, the replacement filters are pricey (around $70). Fortunately, each filter lasts for 25,000 hours, so you get a lot of use out of each one.
The Medify MA-35 has three fan speeds, as well as an ionizer function and a child safety lock. This a wall-mounted air purifier, so it’ll stay out of the walking space and hang on your wall. It comes with mounting hardware, as well as a remote control. However, because it’s a wall-mounted unit, it’s not ideal for those who want a unit they can place on a floor in a corner. It comes in different color options (white, black, or silver) to fit different home décor styles, and the purifier looks sleek and modern. The touchscreen panel is on the side of the unit, so the outward-facing portion has a uniform and clean look.
More Shark Black Friday sale: Save on vacuums, air purifiers, and more Best Buy shoppers love this air fryer, and it’s discounted to $50 This is the single best early Black Friday home security camera deal Image used with permission by copyright holder Honeywell 50250-S True HEPA Air Purifier Carbon-activated prefilter Can handle 390 square feet Powerful HEPA filter Clunky design Another Honeywell model, the 50250-S True HEPA, is one of the best purification units on the market because it’s not too expensive, yet its glass fiber HEPA filter captures particles as small as 0.3 microns. To put that number in perspective, an average human hair is about 80 microns. Needless to say, this unit is more than capable of filtering pollen, dust, pet dander , and even smoke particulates.
A carbon-activated pre-filter also captures larger contaminants and works to eliminate common household odors. Unlike other units, this model uses a primary HEPA that can be vacuumed, thus allowing you to extend the lifetime of the filter.
As with any air purifier, one of the key things to consider is the maximum square footage the unit can adequately filter. Honeywell’s modest offering is designed for rooms up to 390 square feet in size. That is more than enough power to sufficiently treat the air in most rooms around your home.
The Honeywell 50250-S does feature a rather lackluster design — not to mention a bulky exterior. Even if the unit might not necessarily complement the feng shui of your living space, it’s more than capable of removing the fungus in your home. (Pun totally intended.) Image used with permission by copyright holder Winix HR900, Ultimate Pet 5 Stage True HEPA Filtration Air Purifier HEPA filtration Five-stage filter system Sleek design Large footprint With PlasmaWave technology that attacks pollutants on a molecular level, the Winix HR900 air purifier cleans the air of pet hair and dander. True HEPA filtration traps 99.97% of the bad stuff in your air.
Ideal for 300-square-foot rooms, the Winix HR900 grabs tiny particles (it captures particles as small as 0.3 microns) and can make a real difference in the way you breathe. That pet dander that stuffs up your nose gets trapped in the filter, and you breathe clean and virtually allergen-free air. This machine doesn’t just clean your air free of tiny allergens though. It has a five-stage filtration system, including a pet pre-filter, washable pre-filter to grab larger particles, an activated carbon filter, a True HEPA filter, and Plasma Wave technology to create hydroxyls that help neutralize bacteria and viruses.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Rabbit Air Ultra Quiet HEPA Air Purifier Unique design Six-filter system Enters sleep mode automatically Expensive The Rabbit Air Ultra Quiet air purifier’s BioGS HEPA filtration boasts Energy Star-rated performance. Included in its half a dozen purification stages are pre-filter, customized filter, charcoal-based activated carbon filter, BioGS HEPA filter, and a negative ion generator.
This six-filter system is not only energy-efficient but also minimizes airborne bacteria, pet dander, and dust. This air purifier will purify the air in your environment so that it’s free from even the most common household irritants.
Initial filters trap larger particles, and the inner filter system catches smaller particles that pass through. This thoroughness will ensure you won’t have to worry about reduced airflow or a detrimental strain on the machine’s motor. The motor and filter work for up to two years with standard 12-hour per day usage. A built-in light sensor allows the Rabbit Air Purifier to transition automatically to sleep mode when the room is dark.
Editors' Recommendations The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 The best video doorbells for 2023 Dyson’s HP07 air purifier, heater and fan is $200 off at Best Buy Best cordless vacuum deals: Get a Dyson-style vac for $89 10 Dyson deals you can’t miss in Best Buy’s early Black Friday sale Buying Guides Best Products Buying Guides Smart Home For amazing air fryer deals, check out what Best Buy has on sale right now. You can buy the Ninja Foodi 6-in-1 10-quart XL 2-basket air fryer for just $130 so you're saving $120 off the regular price of $250. A truly exceptional device, you'll simply never need to use your cooker again, all while gaining better cooked food too. If that sounds immediately tempting, keep reading while we take you through just how great the Ninja Foodi 6-in-1 10-quart XL 2-basket air fryer is. Alternatively, you can tap the buy button below to get straight to making a purchase.
Why you should buy the Ninja Foodi 6-in-1 10-quart XL 2-basket air fryer The Ninja Foodi 6-in-1 10-quart XL 2-basket air fryer is easily one of the best air fryers around, but even that statement is underselling it. It does so much. It has two 5-quart cooking baskets so you can cook two different food items in two different ways, all while still finishing at the same time. The size of the baskets means you could cook a whole chicken in one side while cooking all your veggies in the other. DualZone technology means that this air fryer has Smart Finish so it intelligently syncs settings in each zone so that both foods cook accurately and finish together. There's also Match Cook if you want the settings on one side to transfer to the other. At a touch of a button, you can always use the integrated Foodi Smart Thermometer to check that the food is perfectly cooked.
Smart Home An air fryer is a great way to bring a healthier, cleaner way to eat to your kitchen, and the current air fryer deals are a good way to save some money along the way. But one of the best air fryer deals you can land today is taking place at Best Buy where you can get the Bella Pro Series 4.2-quart air fryer for just $18. This air fryer would regularly cost $60, making this deal worth an impressive $42 in savings. You’ll need to act quickly to claim this deal, as it ends tonight.
Why you should buy the Bella Pro Series 4.2-quart air fryer All of the best air fryers bring a cleaner, healthier set of options to your daily food intake, and they’re a convenient piece of tech to incorporate into your smart home as well. Bella Pro Series 4.2-quart air fryer is no different. By circulating hot air, this air fryer creates a crispy outer layer on the food you’re cooking, with no need for oil. Its 4.2-quart capacity is large enough to cook up to 3.3 pounds of food, which generally serves between four and six people. This is a great air fryer for preparing appetizers, for cooking for small gatherings, or if you find yourself often cooking for just one or two people.
Smart Home To make sure that your indoor air quality is safe for your family, it's highly recommended that you purchase an air purifier. Some of these devices may be too expensive for your budget, but fortunately there are cheaper options like the Renpho Air Purifier. It's currently even more affordable following a $110 discount from Walmart that brings its price down to just $90, which is less than half its sticker price of $200. We expect this bargain to attract a lot of attention though, so if you're interested, you should complete the transaction within the day to make sure that you don't miss out.
Why you should buy the Renpho Air Purifier Do air purifiers work? Yes they do, trapping contaminants from the air that they pull in, then they pump back the cleansed air into your home. The Renpho Air Purifier works the same way, using a five-stage filtration system that includes a HEPA H13 filter. It's capable of capturing allergens, pollen, dust, pet odor, pet hair, dander, cooking fumes -- even the wildfire smell. The device will help relieve allergy symptoms such as coughing when your family members are exposed to these contaminants. Once the Renpho Air Purifier's filter needs a replacement, you will be alerted through a flashing indicator.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
