Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best alarm clocks By Erika Rawes and Michael Archambault Close We can’t always depend on our internal clocks to wake up on time every morning. Modern smart alarm clocks not only offer reliability but also unique and interactive features that make waking up and going to bed much more comfortable.
The best alarm clocks offer USB connection, voice interaction, connectivity with Bluetooth, and even peaceful “ambient” sounds to help you fall asleep. Here's a look at some of our favorites.
More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Brandstand CubieTime Alarm Clock Charger Affordable price Multiple charging ports Dimmable display Design is a bit chaotic Lacking some smarts To truly earn its place on your nightstand, an alarm clock should be reliable and versatile, letting you customize your wake-up experience without letting you down. This model is actually more than just an alarm. It has two USB chargers and two outlets. That alone means you and your significant other might fight for who gets to put this clock next to their side of the bed. Thanks to its backup battery, you won’t have a Home Alone oversleeping situation when you need to get to the airport or if the power goes out. There’s a big snooze button for those mornings when you need some extra Zs.
Its display can be turned off or dimmed, so the large, easy-to-read numbers won’t blind you all night long. If you like to wake up to the radio or to an alarm that gets louder over time, you won’t find those features in the BrandStand Alarm Clock, although there is a version with a Bluetooth speaker. Still, it does its job well, and there’s a reason this clock is found in a lot of hotel rooms.
More Greg Mombert/Digital Trends Google Nest Hub Gorgeous display Smart home connectivity Tons of applications Access to apps could be distracting Although it isn’t strictly an “alarm clock,” the Nest Hub can wake you up in the morning and do so much more. One of the most drastic differences between the Nest Hub and other comparable devices is its size; the Nest Hub stands at around 4.5 inches tall. This makes it small enough to fit comfortably on a nightstand versus its bigger-sized sibling in the Nest Hub Max. That small frame is partly due to the lack of a camera, which may be a pro or a con depending on how much you value your privacy.
The Hub connects to the various devices you have throughout your home, including lights, speakers, etc. You can set up the Hub to respond to your voice commands, or manage devices using the touchscreen. For the purposes of an alarm clock, the Hub works exceptionally well. You can set a normal alarm, or even have the Hub wake you with a specific song from your music library. For more details, read our full review.
Best Blink Black Friday deals: Get a security camera for $20 Best Amazon Echo Black Friday deals: Echo Pop, Echo Show 8, and more Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats Image used with permission by copyright holder Amazon Echo Dot With Clock Compact footprint Vastly improved sound quality Clock shows more useful info New temperature sensor Added Wi-Fi features Only works as Wi-Fi booster if you're already on Amazon eero network According to Amazon, “What time is it?” is one of the more commonly asked questions to any Echo device. So, to make your life easier, the company offers an Echo Dot with a built-in clock – ensuring you always know the answer to your burning question.
Aside from the clock, the Echo Dot with Clock is exactly like the standard Echo Dot. The clock drastically improves the look of the speaker and serves dual functions, keeping your nightstand free of unnecessary devices. You can make phone calls through Alexa, control other connected devices, and check the weather, all from the comfort of your bed.
More Terry Walsh/Digital Trends Amazon Echo Show 5 Compact size fits anywhere Attractive design Versatile features Enhanced privacy controls Entry-level price Sluggish smart home touchscreen control Alexa calling isn’t easy enough yet No Google Photos or YouTube The version of the Echo Dot with a clock is neat, but what if you also want a smart display? The Echo Show 5 is specifically designed to fill this bedside niche, with a 5.5-inch screen: You can do everything with Alexa that you could with a smart speaker (including setting alarms and reminders), but you can also pick a fancy clock graphic, watch videos or shows, and do many other visual-oriented tasks.
The Echo Show 5 can also connect with a video doorbell, nursery cam, other Echo Show devices, and even Skype, so you can check on things or have video conversations with ease. If this disturbs your privacy expectations, there’s both a shutter and an off switch that physically disables both the camera and the mic on Show 5 whenever you want. Read our full review of the Echo Show 5 to learn more.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Mesqool Projection Alarm Clock Projects time on wall or ceiling Retro design Easy to use Lack smart home connectivity If you’ve never seen an alarm clock that can project the time onto the wall, you may be surprised at how handy this function can be. This Mesqool clock can project the time onto the ceiling, the curtains, or just about any other surface, thanks to the 180-degree swivel. So instead of squinting at the clock through sleepy eyes in the morning, you can just look up at the ceiling. The clock also includes AM/FM Radio, so you can listen to your favorite morning talk shows or follow along with your sports team while you get ready in the morning.
The LED display is nice and easy to read, and you can adjust between low, medium, and high brightness settings. The Mesqool clock also includes a convenient alarm feature that grows incrementally louder, so as not to startle you awake. There’s also a USB charging port that lets you juice up your phone while you sleep.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Hatch Restore 2 Modern design Robust smartphone app Easy setup Most features locked behind Hatch Sleep membership It’s a bit pricey, but the Hatch Restore 2 is one of the most premium smart alarm clocks money can buy. Offering a modern design, tons of wake-up routines, and even a variety of sleep sounds, the Restore 2 makes it easy to start each morning fully rested. A handful of these features are available to everyone, although you’ll need to spring for a Hatch Sleep subscription to get all the available sounds and wake-up routines.
But whether you’re a paying subscriber or not, you’ll be getting a robust alarm clock that’s easy to use, incredibly versatile, and a welcome addition to most nightstands.
Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Best Waterpik Black Friday deals on water flossers and toothbrushes The best KitchenAid mixer Black Friday deals (and accessories from $17) The best Vitamix blender Black Friday deals — from just $125 Buying Guides Amazon Best Products Buying Guides Deals Vacuums are expensive. Feature-rich vacuums, especially wet-dry vacuums that can handle all spills, are even pricier. Recognizing that there’s a gap in the market for more affordable options, Eureka has delivered one for under $200. Get excited. They're perfect for cleaning sticky messes, whether you made them, your kids, or your pets. But the most important distinction is that wet and dry vacuums can vacuum and mop all in one go, and you don't have to swap out devices, attachments, or anything else. At least, that's the case with Eureka's excellent NEW400 wet and dry all-in-one vacuum. It's even self-propelled to make it easier on you -- and it takes less effort to glide around your floors.
Here's the best part of all, though. For Black Friday, running from November 17 to November 27, you can save big on the Eureka NEW400, which is discounted to $140 instead of its normal $200 price. That's a total savings of $60, but really, even more, considering you're not having to buy a separate vacuum and mop. You can grab that deal below right now or keep reading to learn a little more about what the NEW400 has to offer.
Buy Now Why you should buy the Eureka NEW400 wet and dry vacuum during Black Friday Smart Home Matter is arguably the biggest thing to happen to smart homes since their inception. The interoperability feature lets devices from different ecosystems interact with each other, giving you the freedom to shop for your favorite products regardless of manufacturer. Unfortunately, not all devices have rolled out support for Matter – and not all of them will.
Some notable products support Matter as of today, although dozens more are expected to add the functionality in the coming months. For now, here are the 11 best smart home products that support Matter. For a full list, head over to the official Matter website.
Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
