Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best electric toothbrushes By Erika Rawes , Michael Bizzaco and Jon Bitner Close Oral hygiene is incredibly important. Not only does it keep your teeth healthy and feeling great, but neglecting it could cost you a fortune in dental bills. That means a good toothbrush is a must-have, giving you an easy way to keep your teeth clean without much effort.
Electric toothbrushes are a great option for folks serious about their oral hygiene. With a dose of technology, the best ones won’t just buzz away bacteria and food particles, but also teach you good habits and improve your cleaning techniques.
Interested in upgrading your brushing chops? Here’s a look at five of the best electric toothbrushes of 2023.
More More More More Oral-B Oral-B Pro 1000 Best electric toothbrush overall Reasonable price Built-in timer Pressure sensor helps improve technique No smartphone app The Oral-B Pro 1000 is a no-frills electric toothbrush that offers a well-rounded cleaning experience. One of the biggest perks of the brush is its gum pressure control – which automatically stops brush pulsation if you start brushing too hard. Not only does this help you improve your brushing technique, but it’ll protect you from damaging your gums from vigorous motions.
Its rounded brush shape is another advantage over other brushes, allowing it to cover all sides of your teeth. You’ll also benefit from a variety of different brush heads that are designed for gentle clean, whitening, and deep clean (though many of these are optional purchases). Once you’re done brushing, recharging is as simple as placing the brush on the included charging dock.
Toss in other cool features such as a two-minute timer, 30-second pulses to let you know when to move to a new area of your mouth, and official acceptance by the American Dental Association, and you’ve got brush that’ll keep your mouth happy and healthy. It’s also budget-friendly, clocking in at less than $50.
More Philips Philips Sonicare 4100 Runner-up Pressure sensor Two-weeks of power on a single charge Great price Only two intensity settings Many of the features found on the Oral-B Pro 1000 are also found on the Philips Sonicare 4100. This includes a two-minute timer and pressure sensor to ensure you’re not getting too aggressive with your cleanings. But instead of a rounded brush, it uses the elongated design found on most standard toothbrushes.
You won’t have to worry about running out of charge with the Sonicare 4100, as it’ll get up to two weeks on a single charge. A USB-powered charging dock is also included. And if you have trouble remembering when to replace the brush head, you’ll be glad to know the Sonicare 4100 will automatically alert you when it’s time for a fresh set of bristles.
Other standout features include two intensity settings, support for other Philips Sonicare click-on brush heads, and a variety of sleek color patterns that’ll look great in most bathrooms. Consider giving it a look if you prefer the traditional brush design and want an alternative to the powerful Oral-B Pro 1000.
More Best Blink Black Friday deals: Get a security camera for $20 The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 Best electric toothbrush Black Friday deals on Philips, Oral-B, and more Image used with permission by copyright holder Oral-B iO Series 10 Best premium electric toothbrush Smartphone app to track goals Seven unique brush settings Gives personalized tips to improve brushing Expensive It’s not cheap, but the Oral-B iO Series 10 doesn’t cut any corners. From a gorgeous design and interactive display to seven brush settings and personalized tips, the iO Series 10 is the ultimate brushing companion.
The big selling point of the iO Series 10 is that it takes the guesswork out of brushing your teeth. Not only will it alert you if you’re brushing too vigorously or lightly (using colorful lights on the brush) and when your two-minute brushing cycle is done, but it also lets you know when brush head needs to be replaced.
Its seven unique settings are great too, making it effortless to keep your teeth clean. Settings include Daily Clean, Whiten, Sensitive, Gum Care, Intense, Super Sensitive, and Tongue Clean.
There’s even an accompanying smartphone app to help you track goals and give you personalized feedback. It might be excessive for most customers – but if you don’t mind the price tag and are seriously concerned about your dental hygiene, you’d be hard-pressed to find a more feature-complete product than this.
More Waterpik Waterpik Sonic-Fusion 2.0 Waterpik built into brush Supports up to 60 seconds of flossing Can be untethered when not flossing Large docking station If you’re not a fan of flossing (or you simply can’t remember to do it), then the Waterpik Sonic-Fusion 2.0 is the perfect way to upgrade your routine. Beyond serving as a well-rounded electric toothbrush, this unique gadget comes with a built-in Waterpik, offering a gentle alternative to traditional flossing.
Unlike most electric toothbrushes that include a small charging stand, the Waterpik Sonic-Fusion 2.0 uses a massive dock and water reservoir. The brush is connected to this reservoir with a slim cable, giving you access to the brush’s Waterpik at the press of a button. In fact, you can brush and floss at the same time, as the Waterpik is built directly into the brush. If you don’t feel like flossing, the electric brush can be untethered from the base and works like a traditional electric toothbrush.
Beyond the inclusion of a Waterpik, this versatile gadget benefits from adjustable water pressure, a two-minute brush timer, two brush speeds, and a water reservoir that gets you more than a minute of flossing before needing a refill. The reservoir is also dishwasher safe, so it's incredibly easy to clean.
More Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Best Waterpik Black Friday deals on water flossers and toothbrushes Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Buying Guides Best Products Buying Guides Smart Home Buying holiday lights for your home is an investment, so don’t go with lights that only offer one color choice. The best smart holiday lights can be changed to a wide array of colors and blinking patterns and can also be synced to music. You can control them using an app or voice commands using Alexa, Google Assistant, or IFTTT devices, and you can even put these types of lights on a schedule.
Love the idea of keeping your tree up year-round? With smart lights, you can change the light colors to fit the upcoming holiday or season. After the holidays, you could change your lights to pink and red for Valentine’s Day; pastel colors for Easter; red, white, and blue for Independence Day; orange and purple for Halloween … you get the idea.
Web Best Buy is one of the key retailers when it comes to offering fantastic Black Friday deals. That means it's the perfect place to check out awesome TV deals, laptop deals, and even great sales on appliances too. With hundreds of options newly available, we've helped you out by picking out some highlights. Below, you'll find all the best Best Buy Black Friday deals on TVs, laptops, gaming PCs, headphones, appliances, and other items too.
Best Buy Black Friday TV deals Smart Home The best video doorbells of 2023 are being produced by household names like Wyze, Arlo, Nest, and Ring. Products from these companies span all budgets and offer a wide range of features -- including HD video capture, customizable motion zones, two-way audio, and the ability to save footage for later reference.
While most of the video doorbells available today are up to the task of guarding your front door, some of them are better-equipped than others. For example, some offer head-to-toe resolutions that are ideal for certain porches, while others provide enhanced night vision footage for easier detection.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
