Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best home security cameras for 2023 By Erika Rawes , John Velasco and Tyler Lacoma Close Choosing a home security camera can be a daunting task since there are a lot of things to consider. Some aren’t susceptible to power outages, thanks to their battery power and local storage, while others need careful placements inside or outside the home.
We recommend starting with something like the Arlo Pro 4 Spotlight Camera, a well-rounded camera that’s packed full of features and boasts performance that ensures you’ll be in the know about what’s happening at home. Competitors like Ring and Nest may be more recognizable brands, but the Arlo Pro 4 has them beat on features for the price. If you're not sold on the Arlo product, here's a look at the best security cameras of 2023.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More John Velasco / Digital Trends Arlo Pro 4 The best all-around home security camera Sharp-looking footage Additional details with color night vision Doesn't require a hub to set up Smart security with Arlo Smart service Specs are similar to predecessor Spotlight required for color night vision Arlo has always offered the best solution when you need multiple cameras. The Arlo Pro 4 Spotlight Camera shares many of its predecessor's features and specs, but it doesn't require a hub to function. It is fully weather-sealed and ready for use indoors or out, wired or wire-free, with a 160-degree viewing angle. The batteries can easily be swapped and charged separately, so wire-free cameras won’t suffer any downtime while charging.
Now that the camera has ditched the base station that previous Arlo models needed to function, the setup process is streamlined because you connect it directly to your home's Wi-Fi router. When it comes to video quality, its 4-megapixel one-third-inch sensor does a fantastic job of capturing sharp details with accurate colors. The performance is made better thanks to HDR and color night vision, which help to uncover details that are often lost in high-contrast scenes and at nighttime when lighting becomes challenging.
The Arlo Pro 4 is also backward compatible with the existing Arlo Pro system, so current users can continue to use their same base station and older cameras alongside the new model. When you consider the excellent camera performance, Wi-Fi direct connectivity, and smart security courtesy of Arlo Smart, its $200 starting cost makes it more attractive than previous iterations. In fact, the starting cost of the previous Arlo Pro 3 was $500, although it did come with two cameras as opposed to one.
More John Velasco / Digital Trends Google Nest Cam (battery) The best Google Assistant integration Works both indoors and out Stores three hours of video history for free Great contrast with HDR video Magnetic plate has a strong connection Bulky design Details are a bit soft The Nest line produces reliable products with the latest A.I. features, and its products are always strong picks for those already using Google Home. This latest battery-powered cam is excellent for DIY users who want the freedom to place the cam wherever they want — indoors or outdoors — at any angle. The cam supports 1080p video at 30 frames per second, with night vision and a 130-degree field of view.
The camera offers the ability to zoom in, use two-way audio to talk, or contact emergency services. It's also smart enough to customize alerts based on whether it thinks it has seen a person, pet, vehicle, or more. It's also compatible with Google Assistant and devices like the Nest Hub Max , although you won't find any Alexa support on this Google product. If you are placing the cam outside, you can also attach a weatherproof cable so you won't have to worry about recharging the battery.
Out of the box and free of charge, the Nest Cam supports up to three hours of event-based battery history storage, after which you will need to clear out space. You could add a Nest Aware subscription if you don't mind paying a monthly fee, which offers more A.I. features and much more storage for the cam.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Blink Outdoor Cam Best security camera for Alexa Built-in Alexa compatibility Customizable motion zones Multi-year battery Local storage requires a separate hub No cloud storage without a subscription The Blink Outdoor camera offers weather-resistant surveillance at HD resolution with infrared night vision. While the model is battery-powered, allowing you to place it nearly anywhere, the battery sports a runtime of up to two years before needing to be recharged (although it's still a good idea to place it in a more manageable spot like your porch or above a garage).
Blink uses motion detection with customizable motion zones to help reduce errors and includes a two-way audio feature to communicate with the cam. The Alexa compatibility works very well with devices like an Echo Show for an immediate look through the cam and also supports voice commands to arm or disarm the unit whenever you'd like.
The small downside to Blink's affordable outdoor cam is you can't save video natively right out of the box. Instead, you'll either need to sign up for the Blink Subscription plan to get cloud storage options or purchase a separate Blink Sync Module 2 hub to enable local storage.
John Velasco / Digital Trends Wyze Cam v3 The best cheap security camera Very affordable Works both indoors and outdoors More detail with color night vision Tons of security controls Integrated power cord From the easy-to-install Wyze Lock to the versatile Wyze Cam Outdoor, the Wyzeportfolio has been growing at a rapid rate. Its latest offering is the incredible Wyze Cam v3, which like its predecessor, astounds with its unbelievably low cost of $36! Following the same cube-shaped design, this newer model benefits from a sturdier IP65 construction that allows it to work outdoors while resisting harsh elements. It also features night vision, something that has been largely reserved for pricier models. The usefulness of color night vision is astounding since there are details you wouldn't otherwise be able to detect from your standard black-and-white night vision clips.
Furthermore, the Wyze Cam v3 offers a slew of capture modes that even includes a handy time-lapse mode, various security and privacy controls, and local storage to ensure your footage stays with you. You get all of that in a security camera for well under $50. Quite frankly, it sets the benchmark in what we expect out of entry-level security cameras.
Adam Doud/Digital Trends Logitech Circle View Doorbell Best security cam for HomeKit integration Neat integration with other smart home devices Good color night vision Light sensor with a readable interface Facial recognition Not compatible with Android at all Additional hardware and subscription requirement There's no denying that there are fewer security cameras on the market that support Apple's HomeKit. One of the best options is Logitech's Circle View Doorbell, an excellent choice if you prefer to control everything via the Home app (it also works with Alexa and Google Home). The 1080p cam offers a 160-degree viewing angle, 6-foot night vision, and two-way audio for communication. If you have an iCloud+ subscription, you can also upgrade to facial recognition, custom detection zones, and more.
Since it's a video doorbell, the cam includes a chime button and is designed to be placed directly by your door for easy porch/street-side viewing. Setup and installation require an iOS device using the Home app, so there's no need to download any extra apps. The Logitech Circle View Doorbell features an assortment of privacy features to ensure it's safe to have inside the home. They include things like automatic arming based on your phone's GPS location, a dedicated button that effectively shuts off the camera, and the ability to swivel the camera completely downwards.
The Circle View Doorbell is a wired doorbell, so you'll need the proper wired connection to make it work (the doorbell comes with multiple mounting options and a chime kit to help). There are battery-powered doorbell options available, like the Nest Doorbell , but none work with Apple as well as this model.
More John Velasco / Digital Trends Eufy SoloCam E40 The best security camera without a subscription Doesn't require subscription service Crisp night vision quality Better than average battery life Struggles with dynamic range Today's security cameras have advanced features that are blocked off unless you subscribe to one of their subscription services. One common benefit to some of these services is that they'll store recorded events in the cloud, so you can access them at any time with your mobile devices. The beauty of the Eufy SoloCam E40 is that you don't need to pay for a subscription service to reap some of its rewards, like cloud storage.
You'll find an all-in-one solution with the Eufy SoloCam E40 because not only does it cover all of the basics, like crisp night vision, activity zones, and long-lasting battery life on a single charge, but you don't have to pay a monthly fee in order to access the footage it records. All of your clips are stored locally and encrypted, so you can access them at any time on your smartphone.
Best of all, it's a breeze to set up and isn't too expensive to buy on any budget. For what you pay, it's sweet knowing there's no additional cost out of your pockets after buying it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Blink Wired Floodlight Camera Best affordable floodlight Affordable Powerful floodlights Wired connection for constant power Installation can be challenging Not as sleek as other cameras The Blink Wired Floodlight Camera is surprisingly powerful considering its list price of just $99. Featuring two gigantic floodlights that churn out up to 2600 lumens of brightness, it’s more than capable of lighting up your entire yard.
Beyond its great lighting abilities, it benefits from a 1080p camera that’s fully weather resistant. And even if your yard isn’t lit up, it can capture night-time footage in color. Toss in two-way audio, built-in security siren, motion alerts, and customizable motion zones, and it's easy to see why the Blink Wired Floodlight Camera earned on spot on this list. It also works great with other Alexa devices -- so give this one an even closer look if you’re using an Echo hub.
Like most products in this category, some of the Blink Wired Floodlight Camera’s features are locked behind a Blink Subscription Plan. We’d recommend springing for the Blink Basic Plan at $3/month. This gets you live view recording, 60-day video history, photo capture, person detection, and the option to create a local backup with the Sync Module 2.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Blink Mini Pan-Tilt Best affordable indoor camera Affordable cost Simple setup Crisp-sounding audio Soft -looking video footage Cheap construction Clocking in at just $35, the Blink Mini is a perfect fit for every budget. This indoor camera captures 1080p footage, can film in the dark using night vision, and even comes with built-in two-way audio. If you want to make it a more versatile device, you can add the Pan-Tilt mount , which lets you remotely swivel the camera to see more of your home (and it still only costs $60). It's a bit quirky, but it's hard to find a better indoor camera in this price range.
John Velasco / Digital Trends Arlo Essential Indoor Cam Best indoor camera for privacy Privacy shutter offers peace of mind Crisp and clear night vision Intelligent detection with Arlo Smart Artifacting elements in video quality If you’re worried about privacy, the Arlo Essential Indoor Camera has you covered. Not only does it film in 1080p and come with a robust smartphone app, but you can enable a built-in privacy shutter that ensures nothing is being filmed while you’re home. That alone will put it at the top of the list for many shoppers, and everyone else will benefit from a sleek design, impressive night vision, two-way audio, and highly customizable motion zones.
Frequently Asked Questions It depends. The amount and length of storage you get depend on factors like the specific model and whether you have a paid subscription or free plan. Some models, like Google, have a certain amount of free storage that can fill up over time. Others keep captured footage for a period (for example, seven days), then discard it. Subscriptions generally increase the time that footage can be held by a significant amount. However, it’s always a good idea to download a clip from the cloud right away if you will be using it for evidence. Local storage, like an SD card, is generally free to use and permanent, but you have to manage it manually.
Technically, yes, although it’s uncommon. Customers have reported instances where hackers access their home security camera’s audio feed. To help protect your home security camera from hackers, use a strong non-default password, use two-factor authentication when available, secure your wireless network, and buy your home security camera new from a trusted source. You can learn more about how to protect your home security camera from hackers.
Most home security cameras stream video feeds using your home internet network. Video is automatically captured for a certain amount of time when motion near the camera is detected, and an alert is sent to the owner’s phone so they can watch and make decisions like whether to contact the authorities. They use an app as an interface where you can do things like view live video feeds, communicate using two-way audio, set up motion zones, and access cloud storage (or the camera’s internal storage or SD card storage). Most offer various kinds of night vision, and some include built-in spotlights.
Yes. The Department of Criminal Justice and Criminology at the University of North Carolina Charlotte asked burglars about their most effective deterrents. Just over 50% said the presence of outdoor security cameras was an effective deterrent (they’d seek another target if the home had security cameras outside).
The best place to put security cameras is at common entry points — the front door, back door, garage, and lower-level windows. However, you should also consider your area, your property, and any special circumstances that may require a different placement. For instance, if you have a lot of expensive automobiles on your property, you may want to have an outdoor camera covering your vehicles. Or, if you live in an area where there are a lot of second-floor break-ins, you might want security cameras covering the second floor.
No. A subscription is not required for all home security cameras, however, many home security cameras provide more features if you purchase the subscription plan. That could include additional A.I. features, more cloud storage options, or a bundled monitoring plan. Without the subscription plan, your features may be limited.
The cloud storage option in particular depends on a subscription fee. Cloud storage allows you to use your account to access saved video footage from anywhere and download it onto your computer or another device for future use (typically footage is held in the cloud for a certain time from a week to two months, depending on the tier of service). Few smart cams these days offer cloud storage without requiring a subscription fee. Google’s Nest Doorbell is one of the few examples with effective free storage. However, local storage is always an alternative and only requires buying a compatible SD card.
In general, yes. Home security cameras are legal to place in your own home. If you’re using home security cameras for a rental property (like an Airbnb home), they are typically legal, provided you are placing them in common areas and the rental guests are aware of their presence.
However, it is not legal to use security cams to capture footage where people have the expectation of privacy. Capturing footage on your porch is fine, because it’s your yard, and the street beyond it is a public area. But capturing footage of something like your neighbor’s backyard is illegal and has led to successful lawsuits. For another example, it is not legal to place a home security camera in a place like an Airbnb rental bathroom.
 Plus, that’s just creepy anyway.
Some can … but there’s always an option to turn sound recording off, and many models skip it altogether. That’s due to wiretapping laws, which often make it illegal to record sound on surveillance equipment. Even two-way audio communication may have limits depending on specific state rules, although it’s typically legal if the conversation isn’t being actively recorded.
This is by no means an exhaustive list of home security cameras, but these are a few of our favorites that stand out for various unique reasons. Smart home cameras are at their best when they stay out of your way and offer worry-free operation and streamlined apps so that when you do need to interact with them, it doesn’t cause a headache. Good image quality is nice, but it’s not the most important feature when it comes to keeping your home safe or checking in on your kids or pets.
We look for cameras that offer a great combination of features — night vision, battery power, alerts, two-way audio, integration with other services, etc. — in determining the best ones. Obviously, we also take price into account, and there is quite a range of pricing in the current smart home camera market.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats The best Vitamix blender Black Friday deals — from just $125 The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Best Products Smart Apartment Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Smart Home If you want to bring your thermostat into the age of smart tech, it's highly recommended that you check out the Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals that are available for Black Friday. The discounts on the Google Nest Thermostat and Google Nest Learning Thermostat aren't expected to last long though, as stocks are already probably running low. If you need help looking for Black Friday deals involving either smart home device, and if you're having trouble deciding which one to go for, you'll get your answers below. To complete your smart home, check out Nest Black Friday deals and Ring Black Friday deals too.
Best Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals Different retailers have slashed the prices of the Google Nest Thermostat and Google Nest Learning Thermostat, so there's no shortage of options on where you want to purchase these smart home devices. However, so you can secure your Nest Thermostat quickly, we've rounded up our favorite picks below -- you'll still have to act fast though, as the offers may end at any moment.
Google Nest Thermostat -- Smart Home Ring has made some of the most popular tech for the smart home over the last decade or so, with the Ring Video Doorbell becoming a staple of home security. But Ring makes a lot of tech products for around the house, and with Black Friday around the corner, a lot of it is already starting to be discounted. Some of the best early Black Friday deals are on products made by Ring, and we’ve tracked down some of the best deals on Ring products you can find for Black Friday.
Check out Nest Black Friday deals and Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals for similar discounts.
Best Ring Doorbell Black Friday deals Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
