Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Instant Pots for 2022 By Erika Rawes and Michael Bizzaco Close With an Instant Pot , cooking meals is faster and easier. You can create quick recipes for everything from shredded chicken to dessert with less time and effort.
Our pick for the best Instant Pot is the tried-and-true Instant Pot Duo 8-quart.
 The model is large enough to fit a whole chicken or roast, yet versatile enough to cook everything from cheesecake to chili. If the Duo 8-quart isn’t for you, we’ve also picked our best Instant Pot models for an individual, a family of four, a large family, and those on a budget.
If you’re looking to snag a discount, you also can check out our list of the best Instant Pot deals available today.
More More More More More Jenny McGrath/Digital Trends Instant Pot Duo 8-quart Best Instant Pot Great safety features Versatile Makes many dishes reliably Lot of recipes available online Not intuitive Might be hard for users to adapt their own recipes When people think of an Instant Pot, the Duo is usually the model that comes to mind. The 8-quart Instant Pot Duo stands out for its features and affordable price point. That’s not to say other models aren’t solid devices, because many other Instant Pots are excellent multifunctional pressure cookers. However, the Duo strikes a perfect balance between affordability and the features it offers.
The Instant Pot Duo combines a rice cooker, pressure cooker, slow cooker, steamer, yogurt maker, and warmer into one convenient package. It boasts a variety of user-friendly features, ranging from a slot on the handle to place the lid to a steaming rack with handles so you can easily remove it from the pot.
The 8-quart Duo can hold a lot of ingredients. You can easily fit a whole chicken into this Instant Pot, brown 3 to 4 pounds of frozen ground beef, or cook a large roast. If you like making stews, this pot can hold enough to feed eight to 12 people. For dessert lovers, the 8-quart Duo can easily fit an 8-inch springform pan and some 9-inch round pans.
More Instant Pot Instant Pot Ultra 6-quart Best Instant Pot for a family of four Adjustments available for high-altitude cooking Great for slow-cooking meat Cooks eggs well Requires significant counter space Burning warning can be oversensitive The Instant Pot Ultra electric pressure cooker covers just about anything you might want to do in the kitchen. It has 10 main functions, including a pressure cooker, slow cooker, rice/porridge cooker, yogurt maker, cake maker, egg cooker, sauté/searing, steamer, warmer, and sterilizer. That means you can have just one appliance take the place of several. It’s also intuitive, with a central dial that makes it easy to select different programs, adjust times, and more.
The Instant Pot Ultra 6-quart also features an embedded microprocessor, which helps to monitor the pressure and temperature while adjusting the intensity accordingly, helping to ensure well-cooked food. Plus, the pressure cooker offers 11 safety features, including a new steam release reset button that makes it safer for users to handle the appliance. Six quarts is perfect for a family of four, but you can also choose the 3-quart or 8-quart option.
More Instant Pot Instant Pot Duo Crisp 11 Best Instant Pot for a large family Relatively quiet air frying Wide variety of cooking functions High overall capacity Air fryer capacity limited Limited display The Duo Crisp 11 has, you guessed it, 11 cooking presets, serving as a faithful pressure cooker, rice cooker, slow cooker, yogurt maker, steamer, sous vide, sauté, food warmer, cake maker, and air fryer with two fryer lids. For a large family with people who like different foods, this cooker is ideal because it’s extremely versatile.
Cooking is faster and easier in the Duo Crisp 11, as the pressure cooker lid automatically seals in place, and the multilayered air fryer basket features a dehydrating and broiling tray to deliver optimal airflow to all those fried goods. The embedded microprocessor constantly monitors the pressure, temperature, and intensity of the cooking process, evenly distributing heat to ensure a perfectly pressure-cooked and delicious creation.
Another cool feature of the Instant Pot Duo Crisp 11 is Instant Pot’s patented Even Crisp Technology which uses a blend of convection and sensors to deliver a crisp golden finish to the outer layers of your food while preserving a moist, savory interior.
More Instant Pot Instant Pot Duo Nova 6-quart Best Value Instant Pot Easy to clean Affordable Good build quality Metal exterior can get hot Noisy The Duo Nova, one of the newer models in the Instant Pot lineup, sells for around $70 to $100 for the 6-quart size. You can find the device on sale for cheaper during events like Prime Day, Black Friday, and Cyber Monday. There’s a 10-quart version of the Duo Nova (which sells for around $130 to $160) for when you’re hosting a large group of people or when you want to cook an exceptionally large meal. Like the Duo, it combines seven appliances in one. It’s a pressure cooker, slow cooker, rice cooker, steamer, sauté pan, yogurt maker, and warmer. It has 14 different programs, so you can cook anything from soup to a whole chicken to dessert.
One great feature of the Duo Nova is the lid. It automatically sets to seal in pressure when you close it, so you don’t have to worry about forgetting to set the sealing valve in place. The lid also includes a steam release button, which makes it much easier to perform a manual pressure release without burning your fingers. All in all, the Duo Nova offers a whole lot of features for only a little bit of cash.
More Simon Sage / Digital Trends Instant Pot Pro Plus Best feature-rich Instant Pot Incredible versatility Major usability improvements Remote control functions fun and useful Community recipes can be hit and miss The Instant Pot Pro Plus is a fresh addition to the lineup. It packs the most features out of any other model on the list. Of course, you get the usual sautéeing, slow cooking, sous vide, and yogurt making, but you also get canning, which is only available with a few models. The real kicker is the smartphone connectivity that you can use to peruse hundreds of recipes and beam them directly to the Instant Pot Pro Plus so you can get preparations done faster. The app also lets you schedule and remotely activate the Instant Pot Pro Plus, which can be handy when you can’t spend all your time near the kitchen.
A new handle design makes it easier to remove the inner bowl, plus the lid can rest easily at the sides thanks to a mounting mechanism. The Instant Pot Pro Plus is the model to get if you want all of the bells and whistles.
More Frequently Asked Questions A pressure cooker can either be an electric device you plug into the wall, or it can be a stovetop cooker that uses your cooktop’s heat. A pressure cooker builds up steam pressure inside of an airtight pot to quickly cook food. An Instant Pot is a multifunctional pressure cooker, meaning it has additional cooking functions outside of pressure cooking. Instant Pots also are slow cookers, sauté pots, warmers, steamers, and more.
Other multicookers can perform many of the same functions as Instant Pots, but with Instant Pot, you’re getting a trusted and well-known brand.
There are 20 different Instant Pot models, counting the various capacity levels. These are broken up into five families: Instant Pot Duo, Instant Pot, Instant Pot Duo Plus, Instant Pot Pro, Instant Pot Max, and Instant Pot Pro Plus. You can also find older discontinued models still on sale.
You may have heard stories in the past of exploding pressure cookers that resulted from a malfunctioning unit or a random case of bad luck.
Instant Pots have multiple built-in safety mechanisms such as lid closing and locking mechanisms, anti-blockage vents, automatic temperature controls, high temperature and burn warnings, pressure regulation and excess pressure protection mechanisms, and extreme temperature and power protection features. These safety features help to prevent accidental fires and other dangerous situations, and encountering a risky Instant Pot situation is pretty rare.
Yes. Instant Pot came out with the Instant Pot Duo Crisp and Air Fryer , which has all of the features of a regular Instant Pot, and it air fries, too. Instant Pot also came out with an air fryer lid you can add to compatible Instant Pot models. The lid is an add-on accessory to can place on the Instant Pot, and it basically turns your regular Instant Pot into an air fryer. These Instant Pot models are compatible with the air frying lid: Duo 60, Duo Plus 60, Lux 60, Ultra 60, Viva 60, Nova Plus 60, Duo Nova 60.
Over the past few years, Instant Pots have increased in popularity, and so have Instant Pot recipes.
 Creative home cooks and chefs all over the place have published countless recipes online. You can find recipes for almost anything, from desserts to appetizers to easy weeknight dinners. The Instant Pot mobile app lets you search a curated selection and beam the settings for the recipe wirelessly to your Instant Pot Pro Plus.
You can make almost anything in an Instant Pot, but there are a few foods you shouldn’t cook in a pressure cooker.
 Unless you’re using an Instant Pot with a crisping function, foods with a breading, like chicken tenders, probably won’t turn out very well, because the Instant Pot moistens when pressure cooking. Some berries, like strawberries and blueberries, can also be a nightmare, as they tend to sputter out of the top as the pressure releases.
The best Instant Pot accessories are items that will make your pot perform better and help your recipes come out tastier. But you also want additions that make cooking easier. Overall, when it comes to top-rated accessories, a good steamer basket is extremely important. While the Instant Pot comes with a trivet or steaming rack, it’s a good idea to get a larger and better one. For many recipes, like steamed veggies, most chicken recipes, eggs, and potatoes, you don’t want your ingredients touching the water at the bottom. A larger steam basket allows you to expand your instant cooking repertoire without sacrificing the flavor of the food or making more work for yourself.
A glass lid is another smart accessory for your pot. Standard lids obscure your view of the food that’s cooking. With a glass lid, when you slow cook or sauté, you can see inside of the pot without uncovering your food and disrupting the cooking process.
Baking accessories are another must for your Instant Pot, especially if you enjoy sweets. For example, a good springform pan or cupcake liners that fit into your pot make cooking and cleanup simpler. With the right baking accessories, you can easily follow recipes for cheesecake, brownies, lava cakes, and more.
Every Instant Pot features a microprocessor that uses the amount of ingredients in the pot to adjust factors such as temperature automatically. This is a handy tool for novices. Instant Pots also include features such as 24-hour delay start times and, in some cases, LCD. If you have a model that uses Wi-Fi , you can monitor your Instant Pot with your phone. You’ll also get alerts about your meal and suggested recipes from the Instant Pot app.
Instant Pots create steam pressure inside a sealed pot that cooks your food. The pot’s built-in microprocessor accounts for time, temperature, and pressure, ensuring your meal cooks safely and evenly.
For a single person or couple, a 3-quart instant pot is usually sufficient. The 3-quart size is also ideal for cooking side items like rice or mashed potatoes. For three to four people, the 6-quart size is usually sufficient and for large families of five or more people, you’ll want to go with an 8-quart or 10-quart model.
Instant Pots are relatively easy to clean, as you remove the inner pot to clean, and they are usually dishwasher safe. Check out our guide on how to clean an Instant Pot for more information.
Absolutely. They make cooking weeknight meals a breeze, allowing you to produce a delicious dinner just by throwing a few ingredients into the pot. Instant Pots can steam vegetables, sauté food, function as a slow cooker, and even produce a flawless cheesecake.
Be sure to stay up to date on the best Instant Pot deals here ! Editors' Recommendations The best outdoor smart plugs for 2023 This is the single best early Black Friday home security camera deal Best Buy’s deal of the day is $60 off an electric pressure washer Best Instant Pot deals: Pressure cookers, air fryers and grills on sale The fitness trackers you need for summer, according to Best Buy Appliances Best Products Smart Home Pet dander and other allergens can build up in the air you breathe. These particles can become a problem if you have allergies, suffer from asthma, or have young children. Germs and dust particles can also affect air quality, but you can take steps to improve the quality of your indoor air. An air purifier works by filtering the air and catching pollutants, allergens, and other particles. Running an air purifier in your home can significantly improve the quality and cleanliness of your indoor air.
Our list of the best air purifiers includes options with HEPA or PECO filters, as well as additional features to help keep your air clean. We’ve included a variety of price ranges, so people who want an air filter can find one that fits their budget.
Smart Home Smart speakers are an integral part of any smart home, often serving as the brains of the entire operation. Beyond pumping out impressive audio or giving you updates on the morning news, smart speakers can listen to voice commands before passing out instructions to the rest of your gadgets. Functionality varies widely by product, making it important to find the best smart speaker for your setup.
Thankfully, it’s hard to pick a dud in today’s loaded marketplace. Whether you’re an Apple loyalist, a Google enthusiast, or an avid user of Amazon Alexa, just about every big tech company is churning out incredible smart speakers. But if you need some help narrowing down all your options, here’s a look at the best smart speakers of 2023.
Smart Home Searching for a smart lighting solution for your desk, end table, or nightstand? Consider adding a smart lamp to your shopping list. These versatile products not only help illuminate a dark room, but often come with useful features such as timers, multiple selectable colors, and the ability to sync with the rest of your smart home.
The best smart lamps on the market are compact enough to fit easily on most desk or table setups, and offer a wide range of light color options, from different shades of white to every other color of the rainbow. You'll find a list of the best smart lamps of 2023 below.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
