Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best pet tech products for 2022 The best pet tech products on the market for dog and cat owners By Erika Rawes Close Most dog owners know what it’s like to have an anxious pup during a thunderstorm, and most cat owners know what it’s like to have their nervous feline make a beeline for their favorite hiding spot. When pets feel pain, fear, or anxiety, pet owners empathize with them just as they would a human loved one. Owners want to find the best food, treats, toys, and products to make their pets happy.
Thankfully, we’ve come across a variety of tech-centric products designed to make your life — and that of your pet — that much better. From self-cleaning litter boxes to automated treat dispensers, here are a few of the best offerings on the market.
More More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder PetCube Bites 2 Give them treats while away from home Cam and treat dispenser in one Two-way audio Built-in Alexa for music or voice commands Night vision May be too expensive for some owners The Petcube Bites 2 combines a camera with an automatic treat dispenser, culminating in a device that allows you to check on your pet while you’re away. The gadget flings treats and when your pet goes to retrieve them, you can watch them through the camera and speak to them via a built-in speaker. The Bites 2 is a high-quality device, too, with high-definition video, 4x digital zoom, a wide-angle lens, night vision, and two-way audio. No need for a pet camera if you have this treat dispenser.
The newest iteration of the Petcube Bites even has Alexa built-in, so you can turn on the lights, check the news, play music, and carry out a host of other smart home actions with nothing more than your voice.
Tdynasty Design Never miss a meal Secure design 5-meal design Can support voice recordings Not a lot of smart features There are a ton of automatic pet feeders on the market, especially dry food feeders like this one by Tdynasty Design. But this feeder offers a few benefits over some other options on the market. It’s reasonably priced for such a large feeder, and it holds five different meals at once, designed to switch between them based on the schedule you set. The feeder can easily manage dry or wet food with its trays, and the design is made to prevent any damage from overexcited pets.
You can also power the Tdynasty Design 5 with the included power adapter, but if you’re worried about your pet’s safety with the cord, opt to use D batteries instead which will last for up to 12 months. There's even a mic feature so that you can play a recording when it's time for food during the day.
Best Blink Black Friday deals: Get a security camera for $20 The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best holiday smart lights Image used with permission by copyright holder Cat Mate C500 Automatic Wet Food Feeder Dispense fresh food the smart way Designed for wet foods Lasts for five meals Supports a ice pack to keep food fresher Not a great pick for larger dogs Quality automatic wet food feeders are harder to come by because it’s more difficult to keep wet food fresh. The Cat Mate C500 is one of the better options we’ve encountered. It’s not ideal for large animals, but it will serve a small dog or cat up to five meals, each consisting of about three-fourths of a pound of food.
How does it work? It has a circular tray with five separate compartments, and only one is exposed at a time. Program when you want the feeder to expose the next compartment and grant your pet access to the food. It also has an ice pack to keep each portion fresh. The Cat Mate C500 runs on three AA batteries, which will operate the machine for about 12 months. Most of the components are dishwasher safe, too, which makes cleanup easier.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Whistle Go Explore Health and Location Tracker Track where your pet goes GPS support for location alerts Health and activity monitoring Can set fitness goals Access to expert information Requires a subscription Does your dog escape from the fence a lot? Whistle is a pet-centric GPS and activity tracker that keeps tabs on your dog’s whereabouts, as well as their distance traveled. It works with both GPS and cellular towers to track your pet anywhere in the United States, which should provide peace of mind should your dog decide to go on a Homeward Bound adventure.
The rechargeable device easily attaches to your pet’s collar and onboard activity tracking lets you know if your dog was running, playing, or napping. Built-in health monitoring components also let you know if your pup is licking or scratching. Like many pet activity trackers, however, the Whistle Go Explore requires a subscription to keep track of your pet (plans start at about $7 per month).
More Image used with permission by copyright holder PetSafe ScoopFree Ultra Self-Cleaning Cat Litter Box Eliminate cleaning the litter box Plastic lining Activity monitoring Removable hood Some cats may dislike it Cats are amazing animals — independent, yet lovable, affectionate, yet timid at times. One thing that’s not fun about being a cat owner, however, is cleaning the litter box.
Fortunately, you no longer have to get too hands-on. It may take some work to get there, but once you get your cat to use a self-cleaning litter box, it’s smooth sailing from that point forward. We like the PetSafe ScoopFree Ultra Self-Cleaning Cat Litter Box, namely because it isn’t overly large. It's not particularly expensive, either, and it consistently cleans the litter thoroughly. Note that it's designed to be used with particular crystal little, although this isn't necessary. It also comes with a covering hood, although not all cats are fans or those. You can even monitor how many times a cat uses the box to monitor UTI issues and other problems.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Embark Breed + Health Kit Test your pet's health and history Identifies more than 350 breeds Can find more than 201 genetic health risks Easy to use Can't confirm a specific breed for purebred use Tests for humans that examine health and heritage info have increased in popularity over the last few years. The Embark Dog DNA kit uses a cheek swab from your dog to provide a ton of valuable data about their family tree, ancestry, and health information. It also tests for over 201 health risks, and identifies more than 35 specific physical traits, over 350 breeds, and more.
It's also super easy to use. If you've ever used any online testing kits before, you'll be please to see that the instructions are clear and testing isn't uncomfortable for your pet. Activate the kit, swab your pet's mouth (without them eating the swab), and pack it for shipping back! More Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more The best video doorbells for 2023 The best outdoor security cameras of 2023 Best Products Smart Home Using an air fryer is popular today, largely because the machines let us get the great taste and texture of fried foods without suffering through all of the healthy-ruining oils that come with them. As we've explored the best air fryers, however, we've come to the conclusion that not all air fryers are created equal. And we're not alone in this assessment, as customers consistently appreciate using some over others as well. One such customer-loved air fryer is the Bella Pro Series 8-quart Digital Air Fryer. The best part about it? An early Black Friday deal at Best Buy sends this beloved air fryer down to $50 from $130, saving you $80. Tap the button below to check it out yourself or keep reading for more info.
Why you should buy the Bella Pro Series 8-quart Digital Air Fryer The Bella Pro Series 8-quart Digital Air Fryer cooks up to 6.5 pounds of food at a time over 1700W of power. There are nine preset options for popular foods like shrimp or fish, but the whole device is easily controlled by an intuitive touch panel. It's easy to clean your fingerprints off it, too, due to its stainless steel exterior and smooth-surfaced touch panel. Similarly, the interior basket and crisping tray are both dishwasher safe.
Smart Home Air purifiers can help you refresh the air quality in your home by effectively cleaning it and reintroducing it. That's important because indoor air quality tends to degrade over time, even inside really clean homes and properties. The more people and pets you cram into a space, the dirtier it's going to be. That goes for air quality, too, especially if you have allergies. But by taking advantage of one of the best air purifier deals, you can reverse that problem. Take the Dyson HP07 Hot+Cool smart air purifier, which is currently on sale at Best Buy for $200 off. Normally $750, you can get it today for $550, an incredible price. It's an air purifier, fan, and heater all rolled into one, with HEPA filtration and coverage for 1,000 to over 2,000 square feet.
Why you should buy the Dyson HP07 Hot+Cool smart air purifier The main question on your mind is, likely, do air purifiers work? The answer is yes and in many ways. For example, they can help remove strange or old odors in a home or apartment.
Smart Home Best Buy has one of the best security camera deals at the moment as part of its early Black Friday deals. You can currently buy the Arlo Pro 4 Spotlight Camera Security Bundle for $280 saving you a huge $320 off the regular price of $600. A fantastic deal for anyone keen to secure their home better, the whole kit is simple to install. Here's what you need to know before you hit the buy button.
Why you should buy the Arlo Pro 4 Spotlight Camera Security Bundle The Arlo Pro 4 tops our look at the best home security cameras so you're onto a good thing here. By buying this bundle, you don't just get one Arlo Pro 4. Instead, you get three of the cameras along with four rechargeable batteries, a dual battery charging station, and three anti-theft mounts.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
