Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Shark vacuums for 2022 The best Shark vacuums provide strong suction at an affordable price By Erika Rawes and Tyler Lacoma Close Buying a vacuum involves more decisions than ever before. There are so many different types of vacuums, from robots to cordless stick vacuums to uprights. Then there are all the manufacturers like iRobot, Dyson, Samsung, Ecovacs, iLife, Hoover, and so many more. As a vacuum brand, Shark is just one option in a vast ocean of many. But when you go with a Shark, you typically get a relatively well-made vacuum at an affordable price point. It may not be the top-of-the-line unit on the market or sport all of the latest bells and whistles, but it will likely be a powerful and reliable vacuum that won’t break the bank and will get the job done.
If you’re in the market for a new Shark vacuum, we’ve included our picks for the best models you can buy right now. If you’re looking for a Dyson unit, be sure to check out our list of the best Dyson vacuums.
More More Erika Rawes/Digital Trends Shark Apex UpLight Best corded stick vacuum Works well on hard floors, carpets, and area rugs Picks up pet hair Lightweight and easy to maneuver Affordable price Dust cup could be larger Vacuum hose is difficult to click back into place The Shark Apex UpLight offers extremely strong suction power, a self-cleaning brush roll, and stellar performance on both hard floors and carpets. At 10.7 pounds, it’s easy to carry around the home, and it maneuvers nicely, twisting and turning around corners with ease. A great deal of thought went into this unit's design, with features like LED lighting on the vacuum’s head, so you can clean in different lighting conditions and still see the dust and dirt.
This vacuum has two brush rolls. The front brush roll gives hard floors a polished look, while the main self-cleaning brush roll cleans dirt and hair lodged deep down in carpets. The vac completely disassembles and includes an army of attachments that you can store on the vacuum’s wand, allowing you to clean stairs, curtains, furniture, and crevices. In addition to its exceptional performance, the Apex UpLight traps (almost) all allergens in its filtration system, so you can clean your home without getting the sniffles.
More Shark Shark Rocket Cordless Stick Vacuum Best cordless vacuum Extremely portable design Power battery Easy disassembly Battery vacs are best for smaller homes or spaces With cordless vacuums, some people fear the unit will lose suction over time or that the battery won’t last long enough. Even if the unit does maintain its suction and has a long battery life, will it cost a fortune? This is why we like the Shark Rocket. Its 40-minute run time is long enough to tackle a routine house clean, and its suction power is top-notch. Plus, the Rocket maintains that suction power even after months of use, provided you maintain and clean the unit properly.
The Shark Rocket Cordless Stick Vacuum disassembles, making it easier to clean couches, stairs, and vehicles. At only 7.5 pounds, it’s lightweight enough to maneuver around the house without straining your back.
Best robot vacuum Black Friday deals: Save on Roomba, Shark, more This Shark robot vacuum just had its price slashed from $249 to $129 This Shark cordless vacuum is $68 in Walmart’s rival Prime Day sale Image used with permission by copyright holder Shark ION AV751 Best robot vacuum Wall-sensing technology Triple-brush design Voice assistant compatibility Can't entirely take the place of a full vacuum cleaner This update to Shark's botvac line includes welcome improvements: Instead of needing to lay down guiding strips, the vac can now sense walls, ledges, and furniture automatically, maneuvering itself to avoid causing any problems. As with all the best robot vacuums, you can use the app to start and schedule cleaning sessions. It's also compatible with Alexa and Google Assistant so you can give on-the-spot voice commands if you prefer.
The battery life also impresses providing 120 minutes of performance before it needs a recharge. The model has a brush roll, channel brushes, and side brushes for baseboards, so it can offer a fairly complete cleaning experience as long as you run it regularly.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Shark Navigator Lift-Away Swivel Pro Best upright Affordable for the size Large dust bin Swivel steering Not very portable Shark has introduced various upright units and produced quite a few iterations of the Navigator vacuum. But few full-sized upright units can compare to the Navigator Swivel Pro because of its amazing suction and affordable price. The vacuum is powerful enough to suck up dust and dirt lodged deep down in carpets and performs exceptionally well on bare floors, grabbing large and small particles from hard floors and tiled surfaces. At 14 pounds, it’s not the lightest vacuum on the list, but its 11-foot extendable hose, extra-large dust compartment, and swivel steering make the unit easy to operate day to day.
This unit is built to last, too. If you clean the brush roll and replace the filters regularly, you can likely get a lot of years out of the Shark Navigator Lift-Away Swivel Pro.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Shark NV752 Rotator Best vac for pet hair TruePet tech with dedicated pet brush HEPA filtration for pet dander Lift-away design for flexibility Carpet and hard-floor modes HEPA filters require frequent replacement This hefty Shark vac comes with TruePet technology, which means it offers a self-cleaning brush attachment made specifically for pet hair and a HEPA filter that helps remove any pet dander and similar allergens as it works. This model offers swivel steering to get around furniture and modes for both carpet and hard flooring. If you have stairs, the lift-away design allows you to lift up the pod and carry it briefly for more flexible cleaning. The 0.88-quart dust bin, meanwhile, ensures that you'll have the capacity to deal with larger messes. Keep in mind that you'll have to replace that HEPA filter regularly to keep the vac working.
More Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Usually $399, this Shark cordless vacuum is on sale for $198 Best cordless vacuum deals: Get a Dyson-style vac for $89 The best October Prime Day robot vacuum deals happening now The best October Prime Day Dyson cordless vacuum deals today Best Products Smart Home Prime Day deals go live on October 10 and 11. That makes right now a great time to buy a new cordless vacuum. We're seeing some great cordless vacuum deals on big brands like Dyson and Samsung. Whether you're searching for a high end machine or just something to clean your dorm room, Prime Day is a great time to do it. Below we've collection some great Dyson deals, as well as some cheaper options like Bissell and Shark. If you'd rather have your vacuum do all the work on its own, be sure to check out the best October Prime Day robot vacuum deals.
Bissell Powerlifter Ion -- $97, was $108 The Bissel Powerlifter Ion is a simple, cheap vacuum with one important thing in mind: pet hair. It has been specially designed to pick up pet hair and dander. It has a two-in-one design -- you can pop off the middle section and use it like a handheld dust buster. It has separate settings for hard floors and carpets, but you switch between them with a quick button press on the handle, so you can get your whole house without ever turning the vacuum off.
Smart Home Needing a little help around the house is a good reason to embrace the conveniences of modern technology, and right now a robot vacuum is a good way to save in doing so. There are robot vacuum deals taking place across the board right now, with brands like iRobot, Shark, and Anker all seeing discounts on some of their most popular models. A lot can go into how to choose a robot vacuum, but if you know what you need, you’re likely to find some good savings among the best robot vacuum deals. We’ve rounded them all up for you, so read onward for more details.
Prettycare robot vacuum — $85, was $300 This robot vacuum by Prettycare is a good entry level model. It offers a smarter way to clean your home without much expense on the line, as one of its main features is affordability. But it’s also a capable vacuum, as it has customizable cleaning options and powerful suction that can easily remove dust and hair without getting tangled up. It’s able to run for up to 100 minutes on a charge, and it will automatically return to the charging base when the battery is low or when it’s finished cleaning.
Smart Home Roomba is responsible for some of the best robot vacuums around so it makes sense to focus on them when it comes to sweet robot vacuum deals. Buy one and your household chore time will plummet, with a cute robot vacuum doing all the hard work for you. Below, we've picked out some of the best Roomba deals around. They're all likely to be popular so don't count on them being around forever. Here's a quick look at why each is worth your time.
iRobot Roomba 694 — $180, was $275 Designed to be good for pet hair and thicker carpets, the iRobot Roomba 694 has all the essentials you would expect. Instead of using a single bristle brush, it has its dual multi-surface brush system that can flex to adjust to different floor types. It also adapts to different surfaces like hard wood or carpet. A patented dirt detect system helps it track down the dirtier areas of your home while you'll appreciate its cleaning suggestions to save you time.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
