Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides The best Google Home tips, tricks, and Easter eggs By Erika Rawes Close Google Home is one of the best smart home platforms of 2023. Some of its benefits are obvious — such as being able to dish out voice commands or check in on all your gadgets in one location using the smartphone app — but others are a bit more obscure. In fact, some of the best Google Home features can’t be found without a bit of digging.
‘Hey, Google’ Easily connect smart devices Use your mad skills to automate … everything Or just stick to the basics Shop until you drop Read and reply to messages Customize your morning report Embrace the ecosystem Get connected Take advantage of privacy features Have a little fun with Easter eggs To help you get the most out of Google Home , here’s a long list of tips, tricks, and even a few Easter eggs to maximize the system’s potential. Whether you’re looking to easily connect all your smart home gadgets or just want a funny trick to show off at your next party, there’s bound to be something you didn’t know about Google Home listed below.
‘Hey, Google’ Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s interesting that the artificial intelligence (AI) personality that powers Home doesn’t have a name, which seems to undermine the organic relationship between user and device Google is working so carefully to curate. Apple has Siri and Amazon has Alexa , but the engineers behind Home and other Android-driven devices have stuck steadfastly to the generic “ Google Assistant.
” Best robot mops of 2023 Arlo enhances home security offerings with new Arlo Total Security plans The best outdoor security cameras of 2023 You can change the name of your device in the Google Home app under Device > Settings > Name, but the name you choose will not become the new wake word. Despite vocal feedback from users, Google still only allows users to wake up the device by saying “OK, Google,” “Hey, Google,” or, oddly enough, “OK, Boo Boo.” However, there is a way to get your assistant to call you by a different name when it responds to you. Just say “OK, Google, change my name.” You might not get to address your Google Home as “Princess Fluffycakes,” but you can get it to call you by your preferred nickname; we recommend “Your Highness.” Easily connect smart devices Google is also making it easier to set up smart devices. When you’re setting up a new smart device in the manufacturer’s app, you’ll get a push notification that lets you know the device is compatible with Google Home.
 The setup process is becoming more seamless than ever before, and you’ll be able to connect your smart devices to Google Assistant in a matter of seconds.
Use your mad skills to automate … everything There will come a day when devices like those powered by Google Home will be delivered via drone, automatically crawl out of their own boxes, and thrust out a mechanical paw to introduce themselves before plugging themselves in and personalizing their functions to your home. In the meantime, it’s vital for Home power users to learn more about IFTTT.
IFTTT is what’s called an “applet creation service.” The acronym stands for its creator’s basic idea: “If This, Then That.” Basically, it’s a simple way to make Google Home do cool stuff for you automatically. After downloading the app, you can create command modules that can integrate with Google Assistant apps, such as Tasker and Autovoice, to automate certain functions. For example, you could wake up in the morning, say “Hey, Google,” and quickly change the color of your Hue lamps, fire up NPR, and start a pot of coffee on your behalf. You can also set it to respond to notifications, which will prompt it to alert you when that special someone emails you. It can also track your hours in Google Calendar and back up texts to a worksheet so you don’t lose any valuable work or personal interactions.
Don’t want to use IFTTT? Just use the routines feature on the Google Home app to perform multiple actions with one command.
Or just stick to the basics Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re just not an applet kind of person, it’s still important to use Google Home ’s basic applications to make your life easier. It’s worth running down a list of basic commands available to you upon your device’s arrival, meaning you should ask Google Assistant questions, set alarms, connect your calendar, and carry out a host of other basic commands to better familiarize yourself with your new virtual companion.
You can even create digital sticky notes for yourself or your family members on your smart display, so you can remind your spouse to pick up eggs later or remind your roommate to pay the electric bill, for instance.
You can also set up multiple users on your Google Assistant-powered device, like the Google Home Mini or Nest Mini 2nd Gen.
Google Assistant can speak and understand more than one language if you want to make your Google Home multilingual.
 You can use interpreter mode to translate conversations in real time.
You can also use the Voice Match feature in the app and program your Home device to recognize your voice and give you tailored responses. For example, you can ask for information about your commute, and Google Assistant will recognize your voice and give you your commute information — not your partner’s.
Be sure to install the Google Home app on your smartphone too, as it can serve as a central hub for all your devices when away from your smart display or smart speaker. And if you’re not a fan of Google Assistant ’s default voice, be sure to check out the More settings option in the Settings menu, as you’ll find an Assistant voice submenu that lets you customize its dialect.
Shop until you drop “OK, Google, buy me flour.” One of the bigger complaints from Home users upon the device’s launch was that, unlike its competitor Alexa , it wouldn’t allow users to shop hands-free. That changed when Google announced that Home would integrate with Google Express, the company’s shopping platform. The service allows users to order from dozens of stores, including Target, Best Buy, and Costco Wholesale. Users can order products verbally, and your Home device will give you a total that includes tax and shipping before confirming the order.
Google Assistant has some cool features you can use while you’re in the car too. Want to grab a cup of coffee before work? Say, “Hey Google, how long does it take to drive to the closest Starbucks?,” and Google Maps will give you driving directions. You can also preorder your favorite latte from Starbucks while you’re in the car without ever taking your hands off the wheel. You might even be able to reserve a parking spot using SpotHero.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Read and reply to messages It’s easy to make a call with Google Home.
 You just have to say: “OK, Google, call (the phone number)” or “OK, Google, call (company name).” One of the newer features of Google Assistant is its ability to manage your SMS messages when you text. Tell Google Assistant to “Show me my messages,” and you’ll see any unread texts.
Google Assistant will actually read your unread messages to you if you ask it, “Do I have any messages?” The Home device can also read SMS-enabled messages from Facebook Messenger and Hangouts if you have a compatible device.
Customize your morning report One of the functions that Google Home owners were quickest to embrace is the universal command “Tell me about my day,” which triggers an audio report. What some basic users haven’t realized is that the “Tell me about my day” command can be customized to offer different information. In the menu, it’s possible to select different categories, including the weather, traffic conditions, Google Calendar reminders, and even your flight status. It’s also possible to not cut off the report at the end, but instead have the Home default to a custom news feed.
Embrace the ecosystem If you’re interested in a Home device, there’s a good chance that you already use several of Google’s other products. Home devices were designed to work within Google’s ecosystem, and as such, the products are most useful for people who frequently utilize services such as Google Calendar and Google Keep. With these services, Home can truly be your own personal assistant. You can have it check your schedule, set reminders, or add items to your shopping lists with a simple voice command.
Google Home also works with several smart home products, including Google Cast, Philips Hue lights, Smart Things, and more. Other products are added to the ecosystem regularly, and the list continues to grow.
Google and Nest products also work together incredibly well. Have a Nest Doorbell? Google Home alerts you when someone rings the bell, and lets you view who’s at the door from your phone, TV, or Smart Display. If you have a Chromecast, Smart Display, or a smart TV with Google Assistant built-in, you can also use your voice to fast-forward and adjust the volume on your streaming shows.
Get connected Erika Rawes/Digital Trends Google Home plays well with the most common streaming services.
 For music, you can connect your speaker to Pandora, Google Music, Deezer, Spotify, and YouTube. If you use any of those services, it’s a good idea to link your accounts. You can also choose your preferred music service, so when you tell Google to “play music,” it will automatically start playing from your favorite music provider. Your Google Home device will also act as a Chromecast receiver, so any app that works on Chromecast can also be controlled by addressing Google Assistant.
While some of Google’s connected services deal with products inside your home, you can also connect this speaker to your Uber account and other third-party services. For instance, Kayak, Domino’s , Food Network, and WebMD have services you can use. Unlike with Alexa , you don’t need to enable them, but you may need to create or link an account. To access them, try saying, “OK, Google, ask Food Network …” Take advantage of privacy features One of the reasons why gizmos like Home are such useful devices is that they’re always listening, as evidenced by all those stories of AI devices ordering dollhouses without permission or the Super Bowl commercial that made Home devices go crazy around the globe. But for most people, being able to ask Google Home a question or issue a command hands-free is its most useful feature.
However, this feature might be a little unnerving for some people. Do you really want Google, or any other company, to listen to everything you say? It’s also possible for Home to butt into your conversations, even if you haven’t directly addressed it. Google’s four-syllable wake phrase, “OK, Google,” will probably prevent this from happening too often, but we’ve had it perk up at strange times, especially when we’ve said something that sounds similar to the wake phrase. Thankfully, you merely need to press the mute button on the back of the device to disable the “always listening” feature.
You can also turn off personalized ads, unsubscribe to marketing emails, and turn off the camera on your Nest Hub Max when you’re not using it.
Google Assistant remembers everything. So, if you want to delete a delicate query from your history, you can do so in the app by accessing My Activity in the Settings tab. Here, you can either playback or remove your search history. In the app, tap the Menu button > More services , and scroll down to My Activity.
 You can delete them one by one or in larger chunks by date. For the latter, hit the three vertical dots in the Search Assistant bar. Choose Delete activity by and set the date range.
Google is also adding new privacy features, including the ability to tell the assistant “that wasn’t for you” if you don’t want it listening to a specific conversation.
Have a little fun with Easter eggs Image used with permission by copyright holder Google Assistant can be just as funny as Alexa.
 A quick search will give you a bunch of hilarious questions to ask, such as, “What’s that smell?” “Hey Google, are you Skynet?” and “OK Google, Hodor.” If it’s your birthday, Google will help you celebrate. Just say, “OK, Google, sing Happy Birthday.” You can even be so bold as to ask Google, “What are your Easter eggs?” Even the most uneventful days are fun with a Google Home device around for entertainment. It can provide poetry, trivia, and so much more. To get ideas, just ask Google what “things you can do?” If you want to try something new for your next meal, Google can help you make it. Ask for a specific recipe, and Google will provide you with step-by-step instructions and walk you through preparing a delicious dinner. You can even use your voice to set helpful timers. If you forget how many tablespoons are in a cup or some other conversion, Google Home will quickly give you the answer. You can even broadcast a message to your family’s other Google Home devices to let them know when everything’s done cooking.
If you use Google’s Wear OS for fitness tracking, just say, “OK, Google, start my walk,” and Google will keep track of your heart rate and how many steps you take. And that’s not all.
Google Assistant offers fantasy football help using CBS Sports, meditation assistance with Headspace, and even gives you the ability to exchange money with your friends with Google Play. And when all the negativity circulating in the world starts to weigh you down, you can say, “Hey Google, tell me something good.” Editors' Recommendations The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best smart home devices for 2023 The best video doorbells for 2023 Echo Pop vs. HomePod (Gen 2): is the HomePod worth its added cost? The best smart displays for 2023 Google Google Nest Smart Home Indoor security cameras have a host of uses around a home or business. They can watch for intruders, keep an eye on pets, serve as baby monitors, help guide guests, and generally be on the lookout for anything unusual. If you’re interested in an indoor cam that can do it all, these are the top smart options from the best brands on the market! Smart Home For many people the day is best kicked off with a nice cup of coffee. If you’re one of these people, not only do we have a great cup of coffee in store for you, but also some savings. Many of the best coffee makers often see discounts, and that’s certainly the case with one of the best names in coffee makers: Keurig. There are quite a few Keurig coffee makers seeing major price drops right now, including several in consideration for the best Keurig coffee makers. We’ve done the heavy lifting of tracking them all down, so read onward for more details on how to save on a Keurig coffee maker, and for more information on which Keurig coffee maker may be best for you.
Keurig K-Mini coffee maker — $50, was $100 The Keurig K-Mini single serve coffee maker is a stylish coffee maker that looks good in any kitchen or break room. It suits smaller spaces particularly well, as it’s less than five inches wide. Despite its smaller size, it’s still fully capable. It can brew any cup size between 6-12 ounces, and it’s able to brew coffee, tea, cocoa, and even iced beverages. The Keurig K-Mini single serve coffee maker has easy cord storage for transport and tidying up your countertop after use, and an energy efficiency feature turns the coffee maker off automatically 90 seconds after your last brew.
Smart Home A cordless vacuum is becoming a necessity for most families as it's one of the easiest ways of cleaning your home. These machines will allow you to move from room to room without having to unplug each time, and they'll also let you reach every nook and cranny. If you think it's time to buy one, we've gathered some of the best cordless vacuum deals below, including Dyson cordless vacuums and cheaper alternatives. You'll have to act fast though, as we don't think these discounts will last for long.
Black+Decker Powerseries+ 16V Max -- $89, was $100 Black+Decker Powerseries+ 16V Max works great on all floor types, and you don't have to activate any special modes to make it happen. It has an auto-detect function that automatically adjusts suction power when you switch surfaces. It has an LED light to help you see crumbs on the ground, and an anti-tangle brush bar to deal with pet hair. The cordless vacuum also has a freestanding design, meaning it will balance on the floor attachment without leaning on a wall, making it easy to store.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
