Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides How to make your own Alexa skills By Erika Rawes and Tyler Lacoma Close Alexa is one of the most well-rounded smart assistants you’ll find in 2023, making it easy to play your favorite music, catch up on your local news, or check the weather forecast. But beyond all the built-in functionality, did you know that you can create your own Alexa skills? In fact, you can get started today without any prior coding knowledge.
Log in to Blueprints Choose your template Read the Blueprint's details Populate the Blueprint's fields Name your skill Watch for the skill readiness notification message Launch the skill Share or publish your skill Delete a skill Difficulty Duration What You Need Alexa-enabled device PC (to access the Amazon web tools) Alexa skills can be just about anything. From simple call-and-answer prompts to elaborate quiz games, the only real limit is your imagination. If you’re interested in getting started, here’s what you need to know about creating Alexa skills.
Note: Are you a developer interested in creating Alexa skills that tie into your product or service? Check out Amazon's developer guide for creating skills instead.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Log in to Blueprints Start by going to https://blueprints.amazon.com/.
 Once you're there, click on Sign in at the top of the screen. You’ll then have to log in with your Amazon account details.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Choose your template Begin by selecting a blueprint. Think of the Alexa Blueprints as a collection of templates. There are dozens of options across different categories such as Greetings and Occasions , Organizations and Businesses , Fun and Games , Learning and Knowledge , At Home , and Storyteller.
You can do things such as create a quiz game, make a fairy tale, create a workout routine, make a family chore chart, create a greeting card, or customize Alexa’s responses to your questions. Browse the Featured Blueprints to get an idea of what’s available. Then, scroll down and look for Blueprints broken down into categories.
Read the Blueprint's details After finding an Alexa Blueprint template that strikes your fancy, click on it. Doing so opens a description of the blueprint, including the steps you’ll go through to create the skill. Notice the Play button and progress bar, too. This lets you hear a sample of a skill created with that blueprint, which can help inspire you before diving into the rest of the process and provide helpful ideas.
Confirm you want to start the Blueprint-building process by clicking on the Make Your Own link near the top of the blueprint description. For greeting cards, you'll click on Pick a Theme instead.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Populate the Blueprint's fields The next screen you see after clicking the Make Your Own (or Pick a Theme) features numerous form fields. All of them already have content filled in, but you can delete any of it and fill in other details to customize the content.
Use the blue Next button in the top-right corner to progress to the next step after filling out the fields or leaving them as they are.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Name your skill Choosing a name for your skill is one of the last steps to go through. Picking one might seem very straightforward, but you should keep Alexa’s limitations in mind.
For example, Amazon’s assistant still falls short when it comes to recognizing first and last names. So, if you use blueprints to make a family quiz game, it’s best to name it something like “The Family Fun Quiz” instead of “The Alexander Family’s Quiz.” Alexa makes you enunciate certain words (like "our"), so keep that in mind when picking a name, too.
If you notice Alexa can’t understand you when you ask to use the skill, come back and pick a name that's a bit simpler. You can do that by choosing Skills You’ve Made at the top of the Alexa Blueprints homepage. Click a skill to select it, then the Edit button associated with it.
Watch for the skill readiness notification message It only takes a few minutes until your new Alexa skill is ready to go. Look for the notification message indicating the skill is available and ready to use. Once it is, it’s possible to use the skill on any Alexa-enabled device you own that’s linked to your Amazon account.
You can also go to the Skills You’ve Made link at the top of the screen. It lists all skills created with blueprints. If you go under details, and it tells you your skill is Ready to Use and Edit , you can go ahead and launch the skill.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Launch the skill You can start interacting with the skill by using the, “Alexa, open [skill name],” voice command. After triggering the skill, you can make sure it works as expected. If it doesn’t, you can make changes in the Skills You’ve Made section mentioned above.
Share or publish your skill Once you've tested your skill, and you know it works the way you want it to, you can share it with friends or family members. You can share your skill via email, Facebook , Twitter, or Pinterest, or you can get a link to share. To do so, just go under Skills You've Made > Details > Share With Others.
You can even publish your skill to the Alexa Skills Store for Alexa users in the U.S. to find, use, and review. People can give your skill up to a 5-star rating, just like any other skill in the store.
To publish your skill, it will need to go through a review process. Here's how to publish your Alexa skill.
Go to Skills You've Made and click on the skill you want to publish.
Click on Publish to Skills Store (if you've shared your skill, you'll need to revoke sharing).
Enter your Alexa Skills Store name, which is how customers will find you in the Alexa Skills Store. The name of your Skills Store can be different from the name of your skill and your opening phrase. You'll also have to fill in the Created by field, indicating your name or company name.
Go to the next page and choose which category your skill fits into, choose relevant keywords that will help people find your skill, then add a short description and detailed description of your skill.
On the next page, fill out the policy details about your skill and its intended audience.
On the following page, review the information and submit your skill to be reviewed by Amazon for approval.
Await an email notification letting you know whether your skill has been approved or rejected.
Delete a skill There may come a time when you make some skills that aren’t as helpful or entertaining as you’d suspect. The Skills You’ve Made section lets you edit your skill. As an alternate option, you can remove a skill to take it off of your account. You can also delete skills you’ve previously published from the Alexa Skills Store by clicking Remove from Store under the menu choices.
With its impressive Blueprints region, Amazon makes it simple enough for even technologically-challenged users to create Alexa skills and publish their own Alexa skill concepts. As a result, you can personalize your smart speaker device with the type of content that’s important to you and the other people in your house. And, you can easily share your creations with the rest of the world.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats The 11 best smart home products that support Matter Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Shark Black Friday sale: Save on vacuums, air purifiers, and more How-To Amazon How-To Guides Speakers Smart Home There are places you go as a one-stop shop when you know exactly what they offer and when you know they have everything you need. A craft store, for example, would be good for handmade craft supplies. Hardware stores are good for tools and outdoor supplies. Reolink is that place for innovative smart security cameras and related systems. Whether you're looking to protect your home or business property, they offer a variety of all-in-one security kits, 4K-quality solar-powered cameras, and dual-lens PTZ cameras, among others.
You shouldn't leave your properties unprotected these days, especially when smart security systems are so accessible. From multi-camera systems that can cover wide stretches of property to smart and 4K-ready cameras that cover areas of your home -- like your front door or patio -- with surveillance feeds beamed right to your mobile device, Reolink has it all. But here's the best part. In the spirit of the holiday shopping season and for Black Friday, many of its best home security systems are heavily discounted right now. That's right, it's the perfect time to install a new home security kit or upgrade an existing one. Below are just some of the cameras and systems on sale.
Shop Reolink Shop Amazon Reolink Early Black Friday deals -- November 11 to 16 From November 6 to November 16, Reolink offers an extra 5% discount when you use the code REOLINK23PR at checkout during the early Black Friday event. That discount stacks on top of existing deals.
Smart Home Arlo has supported Apple HomeKit since 2019, allowing you to get it synced with popular devices such as HomePod and HomePod mini. The process is fairly standard but if you're new to the world of smart home platforms, there are a few steps that might give you trouble.
Here's a look at how to connect Arlo cameras to Apple HomeKit, along with which cameras support the feature.
Smart Home When it comes to cooking appliances like air fryers, toaster ovens, and countertop cookers, there is certainly no shortage of options on the market. Choice is good, but too much saturation can make finding the right one difficult. It helps to compare them side-by-side, and that’s what we're going to do with the Dreo ChefMaker. It features innovative cooking technology that will blow your mind. As you’ll soon learn, it will revolutionize your culinary experiences.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
