Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to dispose of light bulbs By Erika Rawes and Simon Sage Close Smart lights are a great replacement for older lighting systems.
 Before you throw away your old light bulbs, though, you should know that these items are often recyclable. Disposing of old light bulbs by throwing them away isn’t ideal since glass can break and tear the garbage bag. Worse still, damaged light bulbs can release gases like argon, nitrogen, or helium.
What are the benefits of recycling light bulbs? How do I dispose of incandescent light bulbs? How do I dispose of CFL light bulbs? How do I clean up and dispose of broken CFL bulbs? How do I dispose of light bulbs with mercury? How do I dispose of tube fluorescent light bulbs? How do I dispose of LED light bulbs? How do I dispose of halogen light bulbs? How do I repurpose old light bulbs? Know your local laws and recycling options We’ve put together a guide to help you dispose of different types of light bulbs safely and recycle these items when you can.
What are the benefits of recycling light bulbs? Ensuring old light bulbs are properly disposed of is just one more way we can keep harmful chemicals out of the environment and reuse as many materials as we can. CFL bulbs in particular contain mercury and heavy metal that can cause damage nearby if not recycled.
Are smart lights bulbs worth it? The best smart light bulbs Most common Amazon Echo Dot problems, and how to fix them How do I dispose of incandescent light bulbs? Image used with permission by copyright holder Incandescent light bulbs typically do not contain toxic chemicals, so you can throw them away with your regular trash. You do, however, need to be careful of glass shards, just as you would when throwing away any other glass objects. It may be a good idea to surround your old incandescent bulbs with plastic or other old packaging materials prior to putting them in a trash can.
If you want to recycle your old incandescent light bulbs, you may have options available. Search your area for any other places that accept incandescent light bulbs. This can sometimes be challenging since incandescent light materials are difficult to recycle and the energy it requires is often not worthwhile in the long run. Stores that once recycled incandescents, like Home Depot and Ikea, are less likely to accept these bulbs today.
It may be tempting to put incandescent (or halogen, which we mention below) bulbs in your recycling, as you do with other glass. Don’t do this! The metal wire and other components in bulbs are very difficult to remove, and recycling centers can’t usually do it. Put them in the normal trash instead.
How do I dispose of CFL light bulbs? Image used with permission by copyright holder Unlike incandescent bulbs, CFL (Compact Fluorescent Light) bulbs contain about 4 milligrams of mercury. Although that is only a fraction of the amount of mercury in those old-school thermometers, broken CFL bulbs can be damaging to the environment if they enter landfills or the water supply.
To dispose of your CFL bulbs properly, recycle them. Home improvement stores like Lowes and Home Depot usually accept CFL bulbs. Look for bins to deposit these bulbs at the front of the store. There are also organizations and websites like Recycleabulb.com that have return centers located in cities around the country that will happily take your old CFLs.
How do I clean up and dispose of broken CFL bulbs? If you accidentally break a CFL, stay calm! Unless you roll around in the glass shards, you should be fine with a few simple steps. Stay away from the area and open a window or door to let in some air. Leave the room for about 15 minutes to let the air circulate, and shut off your HVAC system if it’s turned on. You can then use cardboard, sticky tape, damp paper towels, and other items to clean up all the broken glass. Do not vacuum or sweep.
The EPA has a full list of instructions here.
How do I dispose of light bulbs with mercury? CFLs aren’t the only light bulbs with mercury in them. High-intensity discharge (HID) bulbs and metal halide bulbs also include mercury inside. High-pressure sodium (HPS) bulbs are used for floodlights, industrial lighting, streetlights, and parking lots. They contain anywhere from 10 mg to 50 mg of mercury in them. Electric signage often uses neon and argon lamps that work alongside vaporized mercury. These types of bulbs follow the same recycling guidance as CFLs, only more intensely considering their higher mercury content.
How do I dispose of tube fluorescent light bulbs? Rich Smith / Unsplash You may see long, tube-shaped fluorescent bulbs in your home or office. Like CFL bulbs, fluorescent bulbs contain mercury, so you should recycle them carefully. Before you remove a burnt-out tube, it is wise to turn off the electricity at the circuit for that part of your home to avoid injury. Also, it’s a good idea to wrap your fluorescent bulbs in old packing material to help prevent them from breaking if you need to transport them.
How do I dispose of LED light bulbs? Image used with permission by copyright holder Light-emitting diodes, or LEDs, are about 90% more efficient than incandescent bulbs. The electrical current passes through a microchip, which lights up tiny LEDs.
LEDs do not contain hazardous chemicals, so it is safe to throw them away in the trash can. However, some of the components in LED bulbs may be recyclable. So, it’s a good idea to contact your recycling company to see if they will accept your LEDs. Places like Home Depot usually accept LED Christmas lights too, while companies like HolidayLEDs and other recycling sites allow you to ship LEDs directly to them.
How do I dispose of halogen light bulbs? You often see halogen bulbs outside, where people use them as floodlights. Halogen light bulbs are a more advanced form of incandescent bulbs. They are stronger and they are designed to withstand higher pressure than incandescent bulbs. You can safely dispose of halogen bulbs along with your regular household trash or contact your local recycling center to see if they accept halogen bulbs.
How do I repurpose old light bulbs? Previous Next 1 3 Light bulb fruit centerpiece Erika Rawes/Digital Trends Light bulb ornaments Erika Rawes/Digital Trends Light bulb glass/mosaic art Erika Rawes/Digital Trends You always have the opportunity to turn ineffective bulbs into a fun, artistic project. Discover your inner artist or unleash your outstanding do-it-yourself (DIY) skills and transform those bulbs into something valuable. You may be shocked by what you can create with all manner of things you already have lying around your home. Try your hand at creating painted holiday ornaments, using the pieces for a mosaic, or even building a unique sculpture. Below are a few other interesting DIY light bulb artwork ideas we’ve found: Snow globes Flower vases Oil lamps Hanging wall decorations Spiders or glass animal figurines Know your local laws and recycling options Deciding to recycle bulbs is a reliable option if you’re not a fan of arts and crafts. If you choose to recycle your light bulbs, verify your local recycling laws beforehand. Some cities prohibit you from throwing lightbulbs into household garbage. Your local municipalities should have recycling pages with specific guidance on how to recycle light bulbs in your region. When you start planning, know that many recycling sites also include valuable information about recycling centers and drop-off points. There may also be directions included on how to pack bulbs before throwing them away to improve safety. Laws can differ quite a bit by state and even between towns and cities, so it’s vital to study your local laws.
It’s also critical to understand your state’s ordinances concerning light bulbs and what you can use. A great example is California’s light bulb regulation that now forbids selling incandescent and halogen lights bulbs. As older bulbs burn out, citizens have to replace them with newer, more energy-saving bulbs. In the long-term, this is wonderful for the environment but increases light bulb waste when you look at it from a short-term perspective.
Getting to a proper drop-off point can sometimes make light bulb recycling impractical, but luckily there are plenty of mail-in options available.
BakPak BulbCycle TerraCycle Recycle Technologies WM WasteSecure Editors' Recommendations How to create spooky Halloween effects with smart home lighting and sound The best cheap smart bulbs Govee jumps on the Matter bandwagon with new LED Strip Light Nanoleaf opens preorders for its first-ever Matter smart lights Nanoleaf reveals new Matter-enabled smart lights at CES 2023 Smart Lights Smart Home If you're determined to create a truly impressive Halloween lighting setup that borders on obnoxious, Govee has a new set of outdoor smart lights for your consideration. The Govee Outdoor Permanent Lights are now available for $199 for a 50-foot string and $299 for 100 feet.
Govee is employing its usual slew of features for this batch of lights, including RGBIC LEDs which allow for smooth transitions within each light, music sync, and a mobile app rife with customized animation options. These lights should be able to handle cold and hot weather alike, so don't be shy about leaving them out year-round. Govee claims to offer higher watts per bead than anything else available, resulting in 40% greater wall washing effect than competing lights.
Smart Home TP-Link, a company known for producing affordable smart home gadgets, has announced a new lineup of smart LED light strips and light bulbs. This includes the Tapo L900, Tapo L920, Tapo L930, and Tapo L530E. Pricing for the products ranges from $25 to $50, making these some of the most affordable lighting options on the market.
The Tapo L930 is considered the flagship LED strip of the family, offering advanced features such as music sync mode, 16 million colors, up to 1000 lumens of white light, and an IP44 waterproof rating. You can also set up a personalized lighting schedule using the accompanying smartphone app. Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, and Apple HomeKit are all supported by the L930. A 16.4-foot roll costs $50, making it a cheap way to get surprisingly versatile smart lights into your home.
Smart Home Ambient lighting is most simply thought of as "indirect lighting." It’s lighting that isn’t focused directly on an object and is used to add to the available amount of light in a room. You can use ambient lighting as part of ceiling-mounted fixtures or floor lamps to brighten or even out the light in a room. Ambient lighting can also be placed behind an object and used to bounce light off a wall or the ceiling. Think of it as the lighting that takes your room from plain to warm and inviting.
Benefits of smart ambient lights While adding ambient lighting to a room can help transform it from simple to extraordinary, smart ambient lighting is definitely the way to go. The main reason is that smart lighting can be programmed to look precisely how you want it and turn on when you want. Not only can you control the brightness and intensity of the light, but also the color.
You can light up the back of your TV set and have it change color depending on your programming. You can also take things a step further by combining the system with a voice assistant and have several pre-set routines that change the lighting in the room with a single command. “Turn on horror movie lighting,” is just one example of how it could accent movie night.
Setting up ambient lighting Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
