Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides How to set up your Google Home device By Erika Rawes and Gia Liu Close Adding a Google device to your household (such as the Nest Hub or Nest Hub Max) is an easy way to join the smart home frenzy and bring a bit of automation to your life. While no one is stopping you from tossing the gadget on your kitchen counter and calling it a day, it’s definitely worth your time to take a few extra seconds to optimize your Google Home experience. From installing the Google Home app on your smartphone to syncing all your devices, here are some extra steps you should take when setting up your Google Home device.
Plug in the device Download the Google Home app Sign in with Google and sync your device Customize and connect accounts Set up your preferences Change what Google Assistant calls you Set up shopping on your speaker or display Add compatible smart home products Troubleshooting tips during setup Difficulty Duration What You Need Google or Nest-enabled device John Velasco / Digital Trends Plug in the device To get started, first plug your Google Home device into an outlet. Keep your phone nearby too, as you’ll want to pair the two as soon as possible. Also, try to place your device in a central, easy-to-access location. Much of the fun of having a Nest Hub or other Google Home-enabled product is its versatile voice commands -- and tucking it away in a corner can reduce its hearing abilities.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Download the Google Home app Whether you use an iPhone or Android , you can find the Google Home app in the App Store or on Google Play. When prompted, agree to turn on location permissions, as this makes it easier for the device to report accurate local weather, let you know the location of the nearest Walgreens, etc. Be sure your smartphone is connected to your home Wi-Fi, as this is how your device will be able to access your network information.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Sign in with Google and sync your device To use a Google Home device, you’ll need a Google account. If you already have a Gmail address, that’s perfect — go ahead and enter that. If you don’t already have one, head over to gmail.com on your laptop or smartphone to create a new account.
When you are logged in, open up your Google Home app and give it a moment to get its bearings. Usually, at this point, the Google Home app will say something like, “New device detected” or “Set up device.” Select this notification to begin. If you do not see the notification, select the + sign on the Home screen and choose Set Up Device to give the app a kick-start.
A series of numbers will show up on the screen of both your Hub and on your phone, and these numbers should match. Select Yes to verify that these numbers match and that you’re connecting the right device. Choose which room the device will be in, and you are ready to connect.
If necessary, you may also be asked to input your physical address for the device if you have not already done so. Be sure to set the location of your Google Home device, as you’ll need this for things like local weather reports, traffic conditions, and commute times.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Customize and connect accounts Google Home will now ask you about several different connections you can make on your devices to ensure it works with your current services. Here’s what you will need to make decisions about: Voice Match : Voice Match can recognize your voice and distinguish it from several other voices. This is a great feature if multiple people in the home will be using the Google device and have their own Google accounts. However, it does mean that Google will be collecting additional information about you, so some people may want to pass.
Music services : Your devices can connect to services like Spotify, Pandora, TuneIn, iHeartRadio, and more. Connect any music services you use so your Home/Nest device can play them.
Video services : If you have a Google device that has a display, like the Nest Hub, you should also connect any video services you have. Supported video services include Netflix, CW, CBS, HBO Max, Hulu , Flex, YouTube, Viki, Crackle, Red Bull, Starz, and Google Play Movies and TV.
Google Duo : Some Google devices can make phone calls or video calls. Home will ask if you want to set this service up via Google Duo.
Google Photos : If you have a device with a display, Home will ask you if you want to connect your Google Photos account so it can show slideshows of your photos. This gives your device an added use, and even if you don’t use Google Photos, you can choose to connect to general pictures from Google’s art gallery instead. Other customization options are also available.
When finished, Google will give you a chance to review all your choices, and then offer a tutorial that shows you general information about how the device works. If you are offered this tutorial, it’s smart to take the opportunity to learn more! Afterward, you can do as you please with the smart device, but we’re going to talk about several other customization options that users may want to spend time going through.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Set up your preferences To fully personalize your Google Home device, tap the Menu button on the left-hand side of the app, then tap Account Preferences.
 This will take you to a bunch of optional features that Google Assistant offers, so you can make the device uniquely yours based on what suits your lifestyle. If you go under Settings > More settings > Assistant , you can change your assistant’s language or add another language.
By tapping on News and then Customize , you can select which news sources you’d like Google Home to pull from when reading you the news. Whether you’re an NPR junkie, NBC News follower, or Fox News fan, you’ll be able to change the sources at your convenience. If you say “OK, Google, listen to the news,” your Google Home device will then give you a news report that’s customized to your preferences.
Juliana Chokkattu/Digital Trends Change what Google Assistant calls you If you scroll down in the app to Personal Info, you’ll see a spot that lets you change your nickname, and you can even teach Google Assistant to pronounce it correctly. So whether you want the voice assistant to call you “Ma’am,” “Governor,” or “Mary Poppins,” your wish is your Google Home device’s command.
You can also turn off Google Assistant.
Google Set up shopping on your speaker or display Your Nest/Home device also allows you to purchase things directly, which can be useful for more casual shopping or quickly ordering something before you forget. Set up this feature now if you want to arrange for purchases.
First, open Google Home and make sure you are on the right account. Then select your Nest/Home device, and select the Settings cog at the top right. Go to Recognition & Sharing > Recognition & Personalization > Allow Personal Results.
 If multiple users are on the device, you will want to have Voice Match on, too.
Now, go back to the home screen and select your account icon. Go to Assistant Settings > Payments > Next to set up purchasing capabilities. Some important features to look for as you enable this capability are Pay Hands-Free , which can automatically approve purchases on unlocked devices, and Approve Purchases with Voice Match , which requires voice authentication to authorize any purchases (generally better for security).
Add compatible smart home products Google Nest devices are compatible with more than 30,000 smart home products. In the app, tap on Home Control to add a new device. Be sure that these smart home devices are all on the same Wi-Fi network, otherwise, you won’t be able to control them from the Google Home.
Google is pretty good at recognizing connected devices when possible. However, it’s important to note that there is an additional function when setting up smart plugs. During setup, or afterward when visiting Device Settings for your smart plug, you will see an option that says Device Type.
You can then choose which type of appliance is plugged into that smart plug — with options like smart light, air conditioner, coffee maker, fan, humidifier, and so on. Setting the appliance type can help identify specific smart plugs in the app and may be useful for tracking specific things like energy usage. It also helps Google Assistant understand commands more accurately, so you can give commands about the appliance itself, instead of about the smart plug! Once all the devices are set up, you’ll be able to say “OK Google, dim the lights,” and your Philips Hue bulbs will adjust themselves to your requested setting. Then you can look into setting up routines on your Google Nest/Home device, so it can perform several actions based on just one voice command.
Check out our picks for the best Google Home-compatible devices.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Troubleshooting tips during setup If something went wrong when you tried to set up your Nest or Home device, you aren’t alone.
Freezes and crashes are unfortunately common in the Google Home app. Sometimes, you try to pair the app with your home system and get no response. Other times, the Home device you have just connected doesn’t even show up as an icon on your Home app list.
If you’re still in the pre-setup stage, you could find that troubleshooting is a significant challenge. We know it’s frustrating, but with perseverance and patience, you can successfully pull it off when you restart the software. Keep trying again until it works.
Since nothing on the device is connected properly at this stage, rebooting will be straightforward. Unplug your Google device, pause for at least 10 seconds, and then plug it in again.
Ensure you’ve completely closed the Home App; if you’ve got an Android phone or device, just swipe the app’s screen from bottom to top. This method for closing out an app is extremely similar to the iOS method. However, on older iOS models, you’ll need to tap the Home button two times and then swipe your applications upwards to close them.
At that point, restarting your Google Home device would be helpful to launch a hassle-free pairing process. If your Wi-Fi connection is reliable, you shouldn’t experience any issues with automatically connecting afterward. If you are still struggling to properly pair products, you have a few other options to try. You can always consult with others in the Google Nest Community forum to learn how fellow users dealt with similar issues. They may have found a way to troubleshoot the issue that could work for you too.
Editors' Recommendations The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best smart home devices for 2023 Deter porch pirates: Google’s Nest Cam with Floodlight is $90 off Echo Pop vs. HomePod mini: which is the best smart speaker? Save $60 on a Google Nest Doorbell with this early Black Friday deal How-To Google Google Nest How-To Guides Speakers Smart Home Best Buy just launched early Black Friday deals for various smart home devices by Google Nest, including security cameras, video doorbells, and smart thermostats. There are 20 offers in total so it shouldn't take you too much time to go through them, but you should be hurrying because these bargains may disappear at any moment. With Google Nest among the most trusted brands for smart home setups, stocks for some of these products may be gone sooner than you expect, so if you see something you like, push through with the purchase as soon as you can.
What to buy in Best Buy's Google Nest sale If you're looking for security camera deals, the Google Nest Cam is highly recommended in our roundup of the best home security cameras for its Google Assistant integration. It's currently available for Smart Home Adding a robot vacuum to your home is an easy way to automate your floor-cleaning chores. Most robots produced today can vacuum, mop, and take care of minor maintenance tasks such as emptying dustbins and cleaning their mopheads. But no matter how fancy the robot, it'll eventually stop working and need to be replaced.
However, the life span of a robot vacuum varies greatly from product to product. Depending on how often you're performing preventative maintenance, you might be able to extend its life and keep it in your home for years. Here's a look at how often you should replace your robot vacuum, as well as things you can do to make it last longer.
How long does a robot vacuum last? Smart Home Having your home set up to be smart can be very convenient, whether it's regulating the light when you're coming and going from home to talking between family members and sending reminders. There's a ton you can do with a smart home, but if you want to control it all without carrying your phone around, grabbing a smart home device to act as a hub is a good idea. To that end, if you're already in the Google ecosystem, this deal on the Google Nest Hub will let you nab a great hub device for relatively cheap. While it usually goes for $100, you can grab it from Best Buy for just $60, a great $40 discount you can put towards something else.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Hub The Google Nest Hub is a mix between a smart screen and a smart speaker, and while it can do both, it can't do them particularly well, which, surprisingly, isn't a dealbreaker. In terms of the screen, you get a 7-inch display running a 1024 x 600 resolution, which, truthfully, is not great for watching shows or films. That said, if you're using it next to your nightstand for time, weather, and other general controls, that's fine, and it's similarly great if you want to stick it in the kitchen to have something to look at from time to time as you cook. Sadly, there's no webcam for you to have video calls on, but it also means you don't have to worry about privacy, so the Nest Hub can go into any room without issue.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
