Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Roborock Q7 Max+ Review: The most expensive value robot vacuum By Erika Rawes Close $869.99 Mops and vacuums simultaneously Powerful 4,200 pa suction Lengthy battery life Includes a self-emptying dock Excellent mapping capabilities with lidar No-go zones, virtual walls, and water-flow control Minimal included accessories No sonic mopping The most expensive model in the Q-series Roborock’s vacuums have come a long way in a relatively short time period. The brand recently released its Q-Series, a value robot vacuum line that offers powerful cleaning, but at a lower price range than the S7 MaxV Series.
 The Q-Series starts at a retail price of $430. This line includes the Q5 and Q5+, which are vacuum-only models, as well as the Q7 and Q7+, which both vacuum and mop. There are also Max versions of the Q7 and Q7+ that are more powerful than the non-Max versions, and each of the plus models come with compatible auto-emptying docks.
A clean design A self-emptying robot Awesome suction power, lengthy battery Mops and vacuums Lacking in accessories 3D or 2D mapping, decisive and quiet performance Our take To see how the Q-Series compares to other robots on the market, I tested the $870 Roborock Q7 Max+ for two weeks. I was particularly impressed with its power and mapping capabilities, but I wish it came with more mopping accessories.
New Roborock S7 Max Ultra boasts maintenance-free dock, impressive mopping skills Roborock’s new robot vacuum packs a pair of cameras to avoid obstacles A clean design Erika Rawes/Digital Trends The Roborock Q7 Max+ comes in either black or white, so you can choose which color best matches your living space. It looks much like your standard robot vac — circular, with an eye-like protrusion on top that helps the vacuum see where it’s going. It has other sensors (cliff sensors, accelerometers, and bumpers) along the front perimeter and bottom to help prevent the Q7 Max from falling down stairs, ramming into objects, or getting stuck.
This is a high-quality unit, but it’s somewhat large and heavy. It’s almost 14 inches in diameter, about three-and-a-quarter inches tall when the wheels are not fully extended, and it weighs 8.38 pounds. I don’t have any low furniture, so its height wasn’t too much of an issue for me. However, unlike some other robots I’ve tested, the Q7 could not navigate underneath of my fridge.
When you lift the door flap on top of the robot vac, you’ll find the combined water tank (350-milliliter capacity) and dustbin (470ml capacity). On many robots I’ve tested, the water tank is located directly on top of the mop pad. The Q7 is different in that the water tank is separate from the mop pad.
The brush roller is rubberized and doesn’t have bristles, which makes it easier to clean and maintain. The rubberized brush is also better at grabbing pet hair without getting clogged. There’s one side brush, which helps to pull dirt toward the main brush.
A self-emptying robot Erika Rawes/Digital Trends / Roborock The Q7 Max+ comes with the Auto-Empty Dock Pure feature, which means the dirt empties itself into the dock whenever the robot returns to charge. The auto-empty dock includes a dust bag, which you only have to replace about once every seven weeks. There’s also an extra dust bag included in the package, and you can purchase additional onegs from Roborock for $19.
 Alternatively, you can buy off-brand bags that are compatible with the dock that come as packs of six to 12 for around $20.
 It would be nice if Roborock included enough bags for a year, but that unfortunately isn’t the case.
Awesome suction power, lengthy battery The Q7 Max+ has really good suction for a robot vacuum with a rating of 4200 pa (Pascal units). This is better than most robot vacuums, including many Roombas. During testing, I used the Q7 Max+ to clean my first level, which has mostly hardwood floors, but it also has a few large area rugs and a bathroom with marble tile. My floors were left without crumbs in the kitchen, and the Q7 Max+ did an excellent job of grabbing dust and hair from the edges and corners. When it traveled over area rugs, it revved up its suction with its Carpet Boost feature and left the rugs free of any dirt or debris. There were visible symmetrical vacuum lines on each of my area rugs, showing just how thoroughly it cleaned them.
The Q7 Max+ boasts a 5,200 mAh battery, and the manufacturer claims it can clean for three hours nonstop (a maximum vacuum area of 3,229 square feet). The battery made it so I never experienced a time when I ran short on power, and I was always able to clean on one continuous cycle.
Mops and vacuums Erika Rawes/Digital Trends The mopping function on this unit is not as advanced as the S7 MaxV Ultra’s VibraRise washing system, which scrubs floors and makes it so the vacuum system cleans its own mopping pad. The Q7 Max+ has a mopping system that’s pretty simple, but effective. It uses an electric pump to distribute and control water flow levels, allowing for 30 different water flows you can optimize to each of your floor types.
Although it doesn’t scrub like a sonic mop, it still does an exceptional job of cleaning grime from floors with its sweeper-like wet cloth, and it can mop up to 2,583 square feet at a time. This unit also vacuums and mops simultaneously, so my floors were left completely crumb-free, dust-free, and mopped all in one cleaning cycle.
Lacking in accessories After I mopped my floors, the cleaning pad was filthy. After seeing the mop pad and learning my hardwood floors were that dirty before the mopping cycle, I started making a conscious effort to mop them more regularly (instead of just vacuuming). Sometimes with hardwood floors, you can’t see the dirt and you can only tell when your socks start showing the dirt. The problem with mopping with the Q7 Max+ on a regular basis, however, is that it only includes one cleaning pad in the package — no spare pad to use while you toss the main pad in the washing machine, and no disposable pads. The dock doesn’t clean its own mopping pad automatically like the S7 MaxV Ultra does, so having extra pads would be helpful for daily cleaning without interruptions for maintenance.
As mentioned above, the package comes with an additional dust bag for the auto-emptying dock, but it does not come with extra side brushes or any extra main brushes. You can purchase a pack of two extra mop pads from the Roborock site for $17, as well as a pack of two spare side brushes for $16. You can also find off-brand options on Amazon, where you get a larger pack of mop pads or brushes for around the same price.
3D or 2D mapping, decisive and quiet performance Image used with permission by copyright holder The Q7 Max+ has PreciSense LiDAR Navigation, allowing it to create an accurate map of your home. It moves about the room with purpose, cleaning the edges and then the center of the room in an S-pattern. It doesn’t barge into doors, walls, or furniture, and it’s not particularly loud either.
Although I experienced some frustration with the app setup process since it wouldn’t connect via a 5 Ghz connection and it took a few tries to get the unit to connect to Wi-Fi, the app greatly enhances the Q7 Max+ overall. It can create a 2D or 3D map, and you can also switch back-and-forth between the two. There’s an abundance of features in the app, making it possible for you to include furniture, create invisible walls, prevent the robot from entering certain areas or rooms, indicate different types of flooring, and more. You can create schedules, track the maintenance on your accessories, and control a variety of other settings ranging from water flow to auto-emptying settings. You really can make this robot clean exactly where , when , and how you want it to.
Our take The Q-Series is supposed to be more affordable, and many Roborock Q models are reasonably priced, but the Roborock Q7 Max+ still comes in at around $870. This isn’t exactly a budget price when you consider the fact that you can pick up a good budget robot vacuum for around $300 (or around $500 to $600 for a good self-emptying vac). Sure, it is a fair price for everything it provides, but it’s not cheap.
Overall, I was impressed with its cleaning performance, battery, and app features. However, for a unit this pricey, I expected it to include more replacement accessories in the package.
Is there a better alternative? The Q7 Max+ sits in a unique category as the most expensive vacuum in a budget series. It’s not nearly as expensive as some of the higher-end vacuums, like Roborock’s S7 MaxV Ultra or Ecovacs Deebot X1 (which both sell for around $1,400), but it also doesn’t offer the same level of cleaning performance as the $1,500 units, especially when it comes to mopping.
If you’re looking for a robot with sonic mopping, but you don’t want to spend almost $1,500, look at the Roborock S7 MaxV Plus. It retails for a bit lower ($1,160). If you want something even more affordable, and mopping isn’t important to you at all, look at a lower-level Q-series model like the Q5 or Q5+.
How long will it last? The Q7 Max+ is pretty close to its similarly -priced competitors (technologically speaking). It doesn’t allow for a 5Ghz Wi-Fi connection, but it offers lidar navigation, 3D mapping, and auto-emptying. With proper maintenance, this robot should last for at least a few years, and there’s no reason to think the app should discontinue support of this unit anytime soon.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Roborock Q7 Max+ is a sturdy, durable robot that reliably vacuums and mops floors. It has an excellent battery, powerful suction, and an auto-emptying dock so you don’t have to do any prep work before you clean.
Editors' Recommendations Roborock S8 Pro Ultra vs. Roborock S7 Max Ultra: Which is the better robot vacuum? Roborock S7 robot vacuum erases tough, dry stains through sonic mopping Product Reviews Vacuum Reviews Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Smart Home Matter is arguably the biggest thing to happen to smart homes since their inception. The interoperability feature lets devices from different ecosystems interact with each other, giving you the freedom to shop for your favorite products regardless of manufacturer. Unfortunately, not all devices have rolled out support for Matter – and not all of them will.
Some notable products support Matter as of today, although dozens more are expected to add the functionality in the coming months. For now, here are the 11 best smart home products that support Matter. For a full list, head over to the official Matter website.
Deals There's never been a better time to spring for sustainable and portable power options, especially with BLUETTI offering some great Black Friday deals, plus an exclusive discount -- which we'll tell you more about in a second. These deals also coincide with a brand new release from the brand, with the debut of the BLUETTI AC200L portable solar generator and power station. It features a 2400-watt output, 2,048-watt-hour capacity, and a 1,200-watt solar input for speedy charging. It's a sleek newcomer that can be boosted to 3,600 watts in a PowerLifting mode for your extensive yet adaptable energy needs. More on that new station and the great deals below.
For a limited time, from November 17 until November 30, Digital Trends readers can use the coupon code DT100 at checkout to receive an extra $20 off. Yes, that code stacks with existing Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
