Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides How to reset the Fitbit Versa By Erika Rawes Close If your Fitbit Versa isn’t running optimally, a reset can sometimes be a simple solution. Restarting your Fitbit can help if your device is not responding to input or is slow to respond, if it’s not syncing with your mobile device, or if functions like step counting or notifications are not performing properly. Often, a quick reset can eliminate these frustrations and get your device back up and running as normal.
How to restart a Fitbit Versa How to restart Fitbit Versa using the left button How to factory reset a Fitbit Versa How to factory reset using the back button on your Fitbit Versa Getting a new fitness tracker or smartwatch? If you’re selling, trading in, or donating your Fitbit Versa, you’ll want to perform a factory reset, which removes all of your information, credit cards, and preferences and restores the device to its factory settings.
This guide explains how to restart your device for troubleshooting purposes, as well as how to factory reset your Fitbit Versa if you plan on selling or trading in the device.
Difficulty Duration What You Need A Fitbit Versa device Image used with permission by copyright holder How to restart a Fitbit Versa You can restart your Fitbit Versa one of two ways: Using the left button or via the Settings menu.
To reset your Fitbit Versa using the settings menu. follow the steps below: Step 1: Enter the Settings menu on your device.
Step 2: Scroll down and select the About option.
Step 3: Under that menu, select Shutdown.
Step 4: Allow the reset process to complete.
How to restart Fitbit Versa using the left button If you’re having any issues with your Fitbit screen or slow responses to taps, you can also reset using the left button directly on your device. This makes it possible for your to restart the Fitbit without going into the settings menu. Here’s how: Step 1: Press and hold the left button for 10-15 seconds (until the Fitbit Logo appears).
Step 2: Let go of the button once the logo appears.
Step 3: Wait for the reset process to complete.
How to factory reset a Fitbit Versa It’s essential that you factory reset any personal tech before you trade it in, resell it, or donate it to a charitable organization. This helps promote your privacy, while also making it easier for the next user to set up the device. To perform a full factory reset, follow these steps: Step 1: Enter the settings menu on your device.
Step 2: Scroll down and select the About option.
Step 3: Under that menu, select Factory reset (it may also be called Clear user data ).
Step 4: Confirm you want to perform the factory reset.
Step 5: Allow the reset process to complete.
How to factory reset using the back button on your Fitbit Versa If your Fitbit screen isn’t functioning, you can factory reset using the back button on your Fitbit Versa. According to a moderator in a Fitbit community chat room, follow these steps to factory reset your Versa: Step 1: Locate the back button.
Step 2: Hold the back button for about 8 seconds.
Step 3: Wait for the Fitbit logo to disappear.
Step 4: Release the button quickly (for just a second or two).
Step 5: Hold the back button again until you feel another, longer vibration.
Step 6: Wait for the factory reset process to initiate.
Editors' Recommendations Fitbit Versa 4, Sense 2, Charge 6 prices slashed for Black Friday Subscriptions are quickly ruining fitness trackers Best Fitbit deals: Nearly every fitness tracker model is on sale Big discounts just landed for the Fitbit Versa 4, Sense 2, and Charge 5 Fitbit Charge 5, Sense 2 fitness trackers just had their prices slashed Fitbit How-To Guides Wearables Mobile If you’ve been thinking of buying a new fitness tracker, you have a wide selection of options to choose from. Fitbit is a name you're bound to have heard of, as it's one of the top brands in the fitness industry, with more than a dozen varieties of fitness trackers and smartwatches to suit different needs.
With that number to choose from, it's not hard to see why people might become overwhelmed when choosing between them. Thankfully, there are definitely Fitbits that excel in certain areas, and as such, it's not too hard to narrow down your choice to find the best Fitbit for you. We've done a bit of the work for you here by grabbing some of the best Fitbit options around, breaking them down, and pointing out what makes them so special. Here are the best Fitbits for 2023.
Mobile When it comes to Apple’s iPhone lineup, most people just think of the latest mainline series. Right now, this means the iPhone 14, iPhone 14 Plus, iPhone 14 Pro, and iPhone 14 Pro Max. However, there’s still the iPhone SE, now in its third iteration, that still serves a purpose for a specific niche of iPhone user.
The original iPhone SE from 2016 recycled the iPhone 5S body, which was a great design at the time, and it had the perfect small and compact 4-inch size for one-handed use. The second and third-generation iPhone SE reused the older iPhone 8 body, which had a slightly larger 4.7-inch screen, and are still the only iPhones left using Touch ID. Plus, you could pick up an iPhone SE for less than $430, making it a great pick if you’re budget is tight.
Deals Fitbit is one of the most popular names in the smartwatch market, primarily because of its fitness-focused products. If you'd like to try owning one of the brand's wearable devices, or if you want to purchase more of them, the good news is that there are Fitbit deals that are available right now. You'll be able to enjoy significant savings if you take advantage of any of these offers, but you'll want to act fast because there's no telling when these prices will return to normal.
Fitbit Inspire 3 -- $80, was $100 For casual users who want a simple fitness tracker on their wrist, the Fitbit Inspire 3 is an excellent choice, according to our guide on the best Fitbit. It's an affordable and hassle-free wearable device that's capable of monitoring your resting heart rate, blood oxygen, skin temperature, and more. The fitness tracker also has a battery life of up to 10 days, and the ability to inform you when it detects heart rate anomalies. Every purchase of the Fitbit Inspire 3 also comes with a six-month Fitbit Premium membership, which unlocks features such as Daily Readiness Score that will tell you what level of workouts your body can handle, Sleep Profile that provides a detailed analysis of your sleeping habits, and the full roster of Mindfulness Sessions that help you deal with stress.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
