Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What is Robinhood, how does it make money, and is it safe? By Erika Rawes and Andrew Martonik Close Robinhood Whether you’re a hobby trader, a more seasoned investor, or someone who follows financial news, you’ve probably heard of Robinhood. It’s an online trading platform that’s popular among newbie investors and those with self-directed portfolios who want to take investing into their own hands.
What is Robinhood? How does Robinhood work? Does Robinhood have fees? Is Robinhood Gold worth it? How does Robinhood make money? Is Robinhood safe? Is Robinhood FDIC insured? Is Robinhood legitimate? What is Robinhood? Founded by two Stanford grads on a mission to provide more access to investing and to “democratize finance for all,” provides various financial features at your fingertips in a phone app.
You can trade stocks and options, invest in cryptocurrency , and even fund an IRA retirement plan. Robinhood also offers a “cash card” debit card for in-person purchases that offers a rewards program aimed at sending your cash back into investments.
Make your fortune with the best stock-trading apps for iOS and Android What is Google’s Pixel Pass and how much does it cost? Here’s how LG could make money from its dead mobile business How does Robinhood work? To use Robinhood, you create an account on the iOS or Android app. To start trading, you apply by entering in all of your information: email, name, address, phone number, date of birth, and Social Security number — all of the typical info you’d need to create an account with a brokerage. Once you create an account and it gets approved, you fund your account and you can begin investing. The signup process is similar to that of other online brokerages. There may be a waiting period of a few days between the time you sign up and when you can begin trading.
On the Robinhood app, you can see data about different stocks like pricing info, news stories, and analysts ratings. You can use this info, coupled with other published information and your own trading strategies, to make investing decisions. You can buy stocks in shares or even fractional shares (as small as (1/1,000,000 of a share). This allows you to invest in pricier companies without such a large investment. You can also purchase stock by the dollar amount instead of by the number of shares.
More advanced traders can also take advantage of other strategies like options trading and margin.
Does Robinhood have fees? Robinhood offers “commission-free trading” like some other self-directed platforms, but this doesn’t mean you always pay nothing to trade. You may incur regulatory fees and other non-commission fees as part of trades.
If you trade on margin (effectively borrowing money to boost your buying power for a trade), you’ll have to pay interest on that money you borrow. The rate you pay is based on a floating rate that changes regularly, so , but at the time of writing it is 12% — the Federal Funds Target Rate plus a base rate of 6.5%. This interest is paid daily on settled margin transactions.
If you have Robinhood Gold (its premium subscription), you get a discount on the interest you pay on margin. At the time of writing, that discount drops your interest rate down to 8%, a considerable savings.
Robinhood does not charge any fees for keeping an account open, account inactivity, or closing an account. And unlike some banks, there is no minimum amount you need to keep in your account.
The Robinhood Cash Card (previously known as Cash Management) doesn’t have any foreign transaction fees, transfer fees, or card replacement fees. There also are not any overdraft fees — although this is technically a debit card — Robinihood will typically decline the transaction that would overdraft your account.
Is Robinhood Gold worth it? It depends on your trading activity.
is a $5-per-month subscription that gives you access to perks like higher instant transfer limits (up to $50,0000) and professional market data. On the hard money side, you pay a lower interest rate on margin, earn interest on uninvested money in your account, and get a 3% match on IRA contributions.
If you intend to use Robinhood regularly for trades and will hold larger amounts of money in your account, the amount you save on margin interest and make on deposited money interest will easily pay for the subscription fee.
How does Robinhood make money? Robinhood makes money through rebates, margin interest, stock loans, uninvested cash, and cash management. Here’s a brief rundown of each revenue stream: Rebates: Market makers help make securities more liquid so orders go through more quickly and easily. These firms (usually banks or financial institutions) may offer rebates to brokerages, and Robinhood makes some revenue off of these rebates.
Margin interest: Margin is money you borrow from a brokerage to purchase more investments. Robinhood makes money off of the interest it charges for letting people borrow this money. Robinhood may also lend margin securities to counterparts and make money from those transactions.
Uninvested cash: Robinhood may place uninvested cash in interest-bearing accounts and make money off of that.
Cash management: Products like the Robinhood Cash Card and other money management products can also generate revenue for the platform.
Is Robinhood safe? With any trading platform, you face the risk of financial losses if you make a high-risk investment. It’s important to make sure you understand all details of any investment or trade you are going to make, whether it’s on Robinhood or another platform.
As a brokerage firm, Robinhood is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which is designed to ensure fair practices. This doesn’t mean Robinhood can never do anything wrong, but it should mean unfair practices should not be able to continue for any significant length of time. Robinhood has faced scrutiny for some of its practices, particularly removing stocks or blocking trading on certain stocks.
Is Robinhood FDIC insured? Robinhood itself is not a bank, but if you sign up for the Cash Card, your uninvested funds go to a network of banks. The Cash Card is issued by Sutton Bank, which is Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insured. It’s important to take note of where your funds are, between your investments and your Cash Card, to understand what portion is insured.
Is Robinhood legitimate? Yes, Robinhood is a legitimate trading platform.
Editors' Recommendations Apple Watch Series 8 temperature sensor: what it does and how to use it What is transparency mode and how does it work? What is antivirus software, and how does it work? Robinhood reports data breach affecting 7 million customers Apple iPad (2019) vs. iPad (2018): What difference does a year make? Audio / Video Google Chromecast, Apple TV, and Roku devices allow you to wirelessly mirror your mobile display to your much-loved living room TV. But what if you don't own a streaming device with mirroring capabilities? Is there a way to get your phone screen on your TV? Fortunately, there is, and it's a little-known technology that's been around for quite some time. Have you ever noticed three letters above certain HDMI inputs on your TV or A/V receiver? We're talking about MHL, a wired protocol for getting your phone, tablet, or computer display up on your 4K TV. While not as convenient as wireless mirroring, MHL (for compatible devices) will get the job done -- and the only thing you'll need is an MHL-certified HDMI cable. Read on to learn more about MHL and how to use it yourself.
Note: Before you go ordering MHL equipment online, check to see if you can mirror your smartphone to your TV using the gear you already have at home.
Mobile The Samsung Galaxy S21 has arrived, and at first glance, you may wonder whether it's really that much different from last year's Samsung, the Galaxy S20. The new phone benefits from a more powerful processor, enhanced camera software, and a slightly finessed design. On the other hand, the screen has a reduced resolution, while it also does away with the S20's MicroSD card slot. As such, it's not immediately obvious whether it's a better phone overall than the S20.
To help you decide which of these phones you'd prefer, we've put the Samsung Galaxy S21 and the Galaxy S20 through a rigorous comparison test. We look at their specs, designs, displays, performance, cameras, and software, which together should give you a clearer indication of which is the right Galaxy for you.
Specs Mobile With more and more of us engaging in family-style video chat and voice conversations, WhatsApp comes in handy as a safe and secure option for small groups limited to four participants. Unlike some audio, video, and chat apps, WhatsApp keeps your conversations private with end-to-end encryption.
With WhatsApp voice calling, you can call your contacts for free, because the app uses your phone’s internet connection as opposed to your cell plan’s minutes -- though data charges may apply.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
