Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features 9 documentaries you should watch during Pride Month By Erika Rawes Close June is Pride Month — a time when we examine the bravery and civil rights efforts of our LGBTQ friends, family, and community members, while also remaining mindful of the struggles the community has faced (and still faces) during ongoing efforts to obtain equal rights. If you’re interested in learning more about LGBTQ civil rights, we have rounded up the best documentaries to watch this Pride Month.
Stonewall Uprising (2010) Are You Proud? (2019) Matt Shepard is a Friend of Mine (2013) Pray Away (2021) All in My Family (2019) A Secret Love (2020) Born to Be (2019) Disclosure: Trans Lives on Screen (2020) The Death and Life of Marsha P. Johnson (2017) Stonewall Uprising (2010) Stonewall Uprising tells the story of the June 1969 Stonewall Riots, which started when a police raid on the Stonewall Inn led to a three-day riot that united gay men, lesbians, and drag queens and compelled them to stand up for their rights.
This event is often seen as one of the more important events that helped spark the LGBTQ civil rights movement. Following the event, the country started seeing more and more pride marches and gay rights organizations. We now even celebrate the month of June as Pride Month.
This horror remake shocked audiences 5 years ago. Here’s why you should watch it this Halloween This underrated 2016 action comedy is just as good as Chinatown. Here’s why you should watch it This Tom Hanks movie reminds me of Ted Lasso. Here’s why you should watch it Are You Proud? (2019) This 2019 documentary discusses the history of LGBT rights, and the tough road activists groups and protesters have encountered since the late 1960s (and prior), when the world saw events like the Stonewall Riots in the U.S. This film looks at the progress made over the last 50 or so years, and how there is still have a long way to go.
Matt Shepard is a Friend of Mine (2013) Matt Shepard is a Friend of Mine is a documentary film about one of the most notorious hate crimes of the 1990s. It talks about the life and death of 21-year-old Matt Shepard, who was fatally targeted in a homophobic attack in Wyoming in 1998. The film has a 100% score on Rotten Tomatoes, and it portrays the personal and public pain caused by this horrific attack and how it led to a movement that shone a light on crimes committed against the LGBTQ community.
Pray Away (2021) Pray Away is about different individuals’ journeys with Exodus International, a group that promotes the idea that homosexual individuals can be made “ex-gay” through conversion and prayer. This documentary can be infuriating and hard to watch at times, as it shows advertisements from “ex-gay” advocates who try to claim they have “changed.” However, as the documentary goes on, you begin to see a recurring theme. Many of the individuals who were once involved with the group regret their involvement, realize their sexuality is what it is, and begin to understand fully that they cannot change it. This documentary is disturbing, yet important, especially for anyone who thinks conversion therapy is a reasonable option.
All in My Family (2019) This short 40-minute documentary is about a Chinese family with a homosexual son. The son chooses to have children via surrogacy with his partner, and the documentary shows the family’s reaction. An eye-opening story, this film shows the cultural and familial challenges LGBTQ individuals face in a heartfelt and honest way.
A Secret Love (2020) A Secret Love is a civil rights documentary, a family story, a sports documentary, and a beautiful love story. It has so much in one film, which is likely the reason this film earned a 100% score on Rotten Tomatoes. An absolutely moving account of a love story that lasts more than six decades, it shows how a lesbian baseball player sadly has to keep her love a secret from much of society.
Born to Be (2019) This documentary helps show viewers what it’s like to have to fight to simply be who you are.
Born to Be explores the journey transgender individuals go along when becoming their true selves. It follows Dr. Jess Ting, who helps these patients along their paths to becoming themselves. With a Rotten Tomatoes score of 100%, Born to Be strikes a perfect balance between informative and inspirational.
Disclosure: Trans Lives on Screen (2020) With an all-star cast that includes Orange is the New Black’s Laverne Cox, Disclosure is a film about how transgender individuals are portrayed in film and television. This thought-provoking documentary might just make you take a look back on some classic movies and shows and think, “Hmm, that doesn’t really seem right.” The film helps you to place yourself in the shoes of another and ask yourself, “How would I feel if someone were portraying me in that light?” The Death and Life of Marsha P. Johnson (2017) The Death and Life of Marsha P. Johnson is yet another multifaceted documentary on this list, as it combines elements of true crime and LGBTQ civil rights. Johnson was found floating in the Hudson River in 1992, and while her death was initially ruled a suicide, some wondered if foul play was involved. This documentary film received rave reviews across the board, earning a 97% score from Rotten Tomatoes.
Editors' Recommendations You probably didn’t watch the most underrated crime thriller of the 2010s. Here’s why you should see it now These 5 horror movies made me sick to my stomach. Here’s why you should watch them Extraction 2 is the most popular Netflix movie right now. Here’s why you should watch it This action film is one of the most popular movies on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it Paramount+ launches special campaign for Pride Month Audio / Video Features Pride Month 2022 Entertainment June marks the 53rd annual Pride Month, and Pluto TV is doubling down on LGBTQ+ content with the launch of a new channel, OUTtv Proud. And according to the announcement, that will entail a lot of RuPaul’s Drag Race marathons. The regular edition of RuPaul’s Drag Race will be featured on Logo Pluto TV every Monday through Thursday from 6 p.m. ET to 1 a.m. ET. Logo Pluto TV will also have marathons of the spinoff series, RuPaul’s Drag Race: All Stars, from Monday to Thursday during the hours of 3 p.m. ET to 6 p.m. ET, and again on Saturdays from 2 p.m. ET to 2 a.m. ET.
But Pride Month can not rest on RuPaul alone. That's why Logo Pluto TV will also run marathons of Big Freedia: Queen of Bounce every Friday of the month from 8 p.m. ET to 2 a.m. ET. Additionally, Pluto TV's Vevo channels will throw the spotlight on LGBTQ+ musical artists and queer-friendly music acts including Blondie, David Bowie, Freddie Mercury & Queen, Cyndi Lauper, Culture Club & Boy George, Muna, Omar Apollo, Kany García, Maria Becerra, and Ricky Martin.
Entertainment There's a reason why Netflix has a reputation as being the best streaming service out there. It consistently streams some of the best TV shows around, with this year alone bringing such wonderful and diverse programs as Beef, The Night Agent, The Diplomat, and Queen Charlotte. It's movies, however, are more hit-or-miss. For every Oscar-nominated The Power of the Dog, there are a half-dozen Extractions or Red Notices, bland, forgettable movies that don't have any lasting effect on the viewer beyond their initial debut.
That probably explains why Heat, a movie made nearly 30 years ago, is one of the most popular movies on Netflix right now, ranking in the top 10 for the last two weeks. The Al Pacino/Robert De Niro action drama, which was praised when it was first released in December 1995, has stood the test of time not only due to its stellar acting, pitch-perfect direction, beautiful cinematography, and moody score, but also because it's simply one of the best movies ever made. That's a lofty claim to make, sure, but it's one that is justified. If you've already watched Heat, or have not ever heard of it and are curious to watch the Michael Mann film, here are a few reasons why it's worth a stream.
Heat has a great story that is both simple and sprawling Entertainment When it first hit Netflix in 2021, Sweet Tooth instantly became one of the more beloved shows on the streaming service. Set in a dystopian future in which a virus has wiped out most of humanity and also created a new species, the series is essentially a lone wolf and cub story in which a gruff protector must defend a child who is being hunted.
That kind of story shouldn't feel unfamiliar to anyone experienced with the world of science fiction, and in fact, there are plenty of great shows you can watch that have plenty in common with Sweet Tooth. Here are five shows you can check out when you're all caught up on the first season, as well as the new season that's just hit Netflix.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
