Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Mobile Guides How to use WhatsApp Web By Jackie Dove , Paula Beaton and Jesse Hollington Close WhatsApp, the messaging service owned by Facebook, is one of the most popular international online communication services on the planet. WhatsApp Web is a browser version of the WhatsApp Messenger chat and video/voice calling app from iOS and Android. Desktop WhatsApp comes in two flavors — a downloadable system app for Mac and Windows or a browser-based version.
How to use WhatsApp Web on an iPhone How to use WhatsApp Web for Android WhatsApp Web features Sending messages Install WhatsApp on your system Difficulty Duration What You Need WhatsApp mobile app iPhone or Android smartphone Mac or Windows computer WhatsApp Web and WhatsApp Desktop function as extensions of your mobile WhatsApp account , and all messages are synced between your phone and your computer, so you can view conversations on any device regardless of where they are initiated. Here, we’ll walk you through how to use the WhatsApp browser app.
The process and interface are identical in iOS 15 and iOS 16. Similarly, the Android 13 interface is the same as the previous version.
How to use WhatsApp Web on an iPhone Using WhatsApp Web from your iPhone is easy; just launch WhatsApp Web in Chrome, Firefox, Opera, Safari, or Edge and scan the QR code on the computer with the WhatsApp mobile app from your phone.
WhatsApp Web automatically launches in the browser and remains active until you log out on your computer or phone.
Step 1: In your computer's browser, navigate to https://web.whatsapp.com.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 2: Launch WhatsApp on your iPhone.
How to unblock a number on your iPhone iOS 17: How to use photo cutout to cut and paste images iOS 17: How to change the clock font on your iPhone Step 3: On the iPhone, select Settings > Linked Devices.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 4: Select the Link a Device button. The camera view will open in WhatsApp.
Step 5: Hold your phone up to the code on your screen to pair it up. The WhatsApp page in your browser should refresh immediately to log into WhatsApp and show your current list of chats.
How to use WhatsApp Web for Android For Android phones , here are the steps to follow after opening the WhatsApp website on your computer: Step 1: On your Android phone, launch WhatsApp and select the three dots in the upper-right of the Chat pane.
Step 2: Select Linked devices and then select Link a device.
Step 3: Hold your phone up to the QR code on your computer to pair it.
Step 4: Your smartphone account is now linked to the web version of the app.
Step 5: From there you can send and receive messages from your computer’s desktop browser.
WhatsApp Web features After scanning the QR code, you can view your WhatsApp chat list directly on the web page. On the left, you can see your chats by clicking a contact to open the chat and your message history, if you saved it.
On the top-left of the web page, three icons are available: Status , New chat, and Menu , which offers a list of nested options. The Status option reveals all statuses posted by your contacts, along with the ability to respond from the reply area at the bottom of the pane. Clicking New chat opens the contacts list on the left side of the page. From here, you can create a new group or begin a conversation.
The three-dot drop-down menu lets you create a new group, change information in your profile, search archived chats, view starred messages, change settings like notifications and chat wallpaper, or log out.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Sending messages WhatsApp Web is as easy to use as the mobile app, and the interface will look familiar.
Step 1: To send a message from your desktop, click on an existing chat or click on the New chat icon and select the contact you wish to interact with. Here, you can see previous chats, if they are saved, or alternately see the message bar at the bottom.
Step 2: Click on the Type a message bar and start chatting.
Step 3: When you’re done with your message, click the Enter key on your keyboard to transmit — or just click on the Send icon.
Step 4: If you want to include documents, images, or recordings, just attach the files from your desktop and send them as you would any other message by clicking on the paper clip Attach icon at the bottom of the current chat.
Install WhatsApp on your system WhatsApp also gives users the option to have a Windows or Mac desktop client that you can download directly from the app’s website.
Step 1: Follow the installer’s instruction prompts once you download the app (which is essentially just a replica of the web-based app) on Windows. If you’re using a Mac, you can launch WhatsApp once you drag the icon to your Applications folder.
Step 2: Launch it, and you’ll receive a message asking you to scan a QR code on both the web browser version and the web app. Remember that WhatsApp keeps you signed in until you manually sign out.
Step 3: When you’re ready to sign out, navigate to the WhatsApp menu on your cell phone and select Log out from all devices. If you’re on a computer, you can click the three-dot icon at the top of the message and select the Log out button.
Editors' Recommendations It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen How to change your language on Duolingo iOS 17: How to add a different home screen wallpaper on your iPhone How to remove a language on Duolingo Computing Android Apple Google How-To Guides Mobile For the best part of the last decade, WhatsApp has been my primary means to stay in touch with friends, family, peers at work, and even strangers. Texting is not as prevalent in my country, India, as it is in the U.S. for reasons such as the sheer dominance of Android users (as well as the diminutive share of iOS, and therefore, iMessage users), capped carrier costs for SMS-based messaging, and the poor understanding of RCS.
WhatsApp, on the other hand, is more widely used here than any other communication medium, primarily because it's free and allows the exchange of a multitude of types of media without being limited by national borders. People of all ages use and love it -- and they collectively send enough messages to clog up the internet.
Mobile It’s that time of the year again. On Sunday, November 5, at 2:00 a.m., the majority of people in the U.S. will revert to standard time by setting their clocks behind by an hour. This also means that you get an extra hour of sleep. However, it raises an important question: will your phone automatically change to standard time, or do you need to do it manually? It's a question that applies regardless of which phone you have. Whether you're rocking an iPhone 15 Pro, a Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, or any other smartphone, it's important to know whether or not you need to change it for the new time.
Mobile It seems like new apps don't create much excitement nowadays, but one app has caught people's attention recently. It's called Lapse, and it's a photo-sharing app that is currently only available through invitation.
The app was created to allow you to share photos with friends, not with followers, in fun new ways. Friends versus followers might seem a bit confusing, but it becomes clearer once you understand how the app operates.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
