Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features AWS brings easy AI app development to companies By Fionna Agomuoh Close The future of artificial intelligence is quickly being made into an out-of-box experience that companies can customize based on their specific needs. Optimized chat experiences that are functional far beyond question-and-answer and tools to create AI applications without months of coding development could be the next step outside of introducing new plugins and extensions.
Foundation models Agents for Amazon Bedrock More commonplace tools, such as ChatGPT for information and Midjourney for images rely on public data and consistent developer coding to create an end product. Meanwhile, Amazon Web Services (AWS) is committed to making generative AI that is not only more productive and easier to navigate but also data unique and data secure to the companies that deploy its tools.
Fionna Agomuoh / Digital Trends The brand is using platforms such as Amazon Bedrock to carve out a unique space for itself in the new AI market. Its flagship hub has been available since April and houses several of what it calls Foundation Models (FMs). AWS has initially trained these base-level APIs and offer organizations the standard AI features they desire. Organizations can mix and match their preferred FMs and then continue to develop apps, adding their own proprietary data for their unique needs.
“As a provider, we basically train these models on a large corpus of data. Once the model is trained, there’s a cutoff point. For example, January of 2023, then the model doesn’t have any information after that point, but companies want data, which is private,” Amazon Bedrock Product and Engineering General Manager, Atul Deo told Digital Trends.
Elon Musk’s new AI company aims to ‘understand the universe’ Nvidia is bringing ChatGPT-style AI to video games, and I’m already worried OpenAI’s new ChatGPT app is free for iPhone and iPad Each company and the foundation models it uses will vary, so each resulting application will be unique based on the information organizations feed to a model. FMs are already base templates. To then use open-source information to populate the models can make applications repetitive across companies. AWS’ strategy gives companies the opportunity to make their apps unique by introducing their own data.
“You also want to be able to ask the model some questions and get answers, but if it can only answer questions on some stale public data, that is not very helpful. You want to be able to pass the relevant information to the model and get the relevant answers in real time. That is one of the core problems that it solves,” Deo added.
Foundation models The several foundation models supported on Amazon Bedrock include Amazon Titan, as well as models from the providers Anthropic, AI21Labs, and StabilityAI, each tackling important functions within the AI space, from text analysis, image generation, and multilingual generation, among other tasks. Bedrock is a continuation of the pre-trained models AWS has already developed on the Amazon SageMaker JumpStart platform, which has been on the ground floor of many public FMs, including Meta AI , Hugging Face, LightOn, Databricks, and Alexa.
AWS / AWS AWS also recently announced new Bedrock models from the brand Cohere at its AWS Summit in late July in New York City. These models include Command, which is able to execute summarization, copywriting, dialog, text extraction, and question-answering for business applications, and Embed, which can complete cluster searches and classify tasks in over 100 languages.
AWS machine learning vice president, Swami Sivasubramanian said during the summit keynote that FMs are low cost, low latency, intended to be customized privately, data encrypted, and are not used to train the original base model developed by AWS.
The brand collaborates with a host of companies using Amazon Bedrock, including Chegg, Lonely Planet, Cimpress, Philips, IBM, Nexxiot, Neiman Marcus, Ryanair, Hellmann, WPS Office, Twilio, Bridgewater & Associates, Showpad, Coda, and Booking.com.
Agents for Amazon Bedrock AWS also introduced the auxiliary tool, Agents for Amazon Bedrock at its summit, which expands the functionality of Foundational Models. Targeted toward companies for a multitude of use cases, Agents is an augmented chat experience that assists users beyond the standard chatbot question and answer. It is able to proactively execute tasks based on the information on which it is fine-tuned.
AWS gave an example of how it works well in a commercial space. Say a retail customer wanted to exchange a pair of shoes. Interacting with Agent, the user can detail that they want to make a shoe exchange from a size 8 to a size 9. Agents will ask for their order ID. Once entered, Agents will be able to access the retail inventory behind the scenes, tell the customer their requested size is in stock, and ask if they would like to proceed with the exchange. Once the user says yes, Agents will confirm that the order has been updated.
“Traditionally to do this would be a lot of work. The old chatbots were very rigid. If you said something here and there and it’s not working — you’d say let me just talk to the human agent,” Deo said.
“Now because large language models have a much richer understanding of how humans talk, they can take actions and make use of the proprietary data in a company.” The brand also gave examples of how an insurance company can use Agents to file and organize insurance claims. Agents can even assist corporate staff with tasks such as looking up the company policy on PTO or actively scheduling that time off, with a now commonly known style of AI prompt, such as, “C an you file PTO for me ?” Agents particularly captures how foundational models allow users to focus on the aspects of AI that are most important to them. Without having to spend months developing and training one language model at a time, companies can spend more time tweaking information that is important to their organizations in Agents, ensuring that it is up to date.
“You can fine-tune a model with your proprietary data. As the request is being made, you want the latest and greatest,” Deo said.
As many companies overall continue to shift toward a more business-centered strategy for AI, AWS’ aim goal simply appears to be helping brands and organizations to get their AI-integrated apps and services up and running sooner. Cutting app development time could see a spring of new AI apps on the market, but could also see many commonly used tools getting much-needed updates.
Editors' Recommendations Amazon expands use of generative AI to summarize product reviews Meta’s new AI app is both for patients with vocal cord damage and in-game NPCs This new Photoshop tool could bring AI magic to your images Medical health experts the latest to sound alarm over AI development Adobe Firefly brings text-to-image AI to the masses, with artist ethics in mind Features Computing Microsoft isn't slowing down its momentum in generative AI. Just a month since it launched the ChatGPT-based Bing Chat, the company is now introducing Bing Image Creator, which brings text-to-image generation right to your browser.
Bing Image Creator lets you create images from text using DALL-E, which is OpenAI's own text-to-image AI model. Microsoft says it's using "an advanced" version of DALL-E, though the company didn't provide specifics about how it was different than the current DALL-E 2 model. This isn't dissimilar, though, to how Bing Chat was announced, which had been running on GPT-4 before the new model had even been announced.
Computing Wannabe novelists who don’t want to put in the time or effort to create their literary masterpiece are turning to ChatGPT for help.
A number of recent reports reveal how OpenAI’s AI-powered chatbot is already showing up as co-author for more than 200 books in the self-published section of Amazon’s online bookstore. And they’re only the ones where ChatGPT is credited.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
