Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Double-check that job posting — hackers are spreading malware through them By Fionna Agomuoh Close A new phishing scam has surfaced that is showing how sophisticated bad actors are becoming in tricking unsuspecting victims into giving up their personal information.
The latest cyberattack is centered around the job listing website, Indeed. Hackers send out an email spoofing an employment opportunity from the website. Once you click the link, it will send you to a Microsoft 365 login page to enter your credentials. From here you’re not suspecting anything unscrupulous, but the next time you attempt to log into your Microsoft 365 account, you will find that not only are you getting an error message that the information is incorrect, but that your account is no longer available.
Sora Shimazaki / Pexels Researchers at Menlo Security have observed this phishing scam, which is being targeted at U.S. executives in industries including electronic manufacturing, banking and finance, real estate, insurance, and property management, according to Bleeping Computer.
The cyberattack has been so seamless it has been able to evade multifactor authentication on Microsoft 365 accounts through a method called cookie stealing.
 This tactic is used to swipe the cookies from well-known websites and mimic their designs. By hacking recent web sessions of programs that are not commonly refreshed, bad actors that replicate pages can look identical to pages of common websites. Cookie stealing was also developed as a bypass for multi-factor authentication. If you have the security feature set up on your account, you would likely input it yourself, having visually deemed the website to be trustworthy.
Bing Chat just beat a security check to stop hackers and spammers Malware is spreading through Google Bard ads — here’s how to avoid them Hackers are using a devious new trick to infect your devices Researchers began noticing cookie stealing attacks in 2022, targeting several major brands, including Google Chrome, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Azure, Slack, and Electronic Arts.
The hackers in this case used a platform called EvilProxy to execute their cookie stealing and fashion a page that looks like an authentic Microsoft login page. Multifactor authentication is commonplace for Microsoft 365 so users will have some form set up.
The addition of the Indeed email makes this phishing scam especially complex because opening the link triggers an open redirect, which is a weakness that allows the bad actor to direct you to their nefarious website after clicking on a seemingly legitimate link.
This isn’t the only phishing scam plaguing Microsoft services in recent times. Last month, for example, a team of hackers was able to infiltrate Microsoft Teams to execute a phishing scam called “DarkGate Loader.” The scheme centers on a bogus Teams message about “changes to the vacation schedule,” but contains intricate hidden malware when downloaded. Cybersecurity researchers uncovered that hackers were able to access Teams through compromised Office 365 accounts and even found the unsecured email addresses they were able to take over.
Ongoing spam and cybercrime have prompted email providers, including Gmail and Yahoo to set into place requirements for bulk senders as security measures. These requirements include email authentication, the ability to easily unsubscribe, and email assurance, and will be set in place starting February 1, 2024. Google said many of the requirements largely play as basic email hygiene but are being set forth with the aim of making it an industry standard.
Editors' Recommendations Hackers are using this incredibly sneaky trick to hide malware Hackers are sending malware through seemingly innocent Microsoft Teams messages Hackers are using AI to create vicious malware, says FBI Hackers are using AI to spread dangerous malware on YouTube Great, hackers are now using ChatGPT to create malware Tech News Computing It's easy to get fooled by this new and devious, holiday-themed phishing attack that offers free prizes. But the old caution that “if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is” continues to be proven correct in this case.
What makes this trick so effective is the elaborate methods used to conceal its nefarious purpose and to reassure you, the potential victim, that it’s perfectly OK to proceed. This phishing attack has actually been active since September and is ongoing, targeting holiday shoppers seeking special offers.
Computing Some alarming news broke today that hundreds of U.S. news websites are unwittingly playing a big role in a new malware campaign that's disguised as a Chrome browser update. This is quite a devious attack method since it's considered an important security practice to update your browser as soon as possible.
The way hackers are delivering the malware is also clever. It’s coming via an advertising network that also supplies video content to newspaper websites across the nation. It’s difficult to identify and shut down this attack because it is applied intermittently. According to a tweet by the security research team Threat Insight, the JavaScript code is being changed back and forth from the normal harmless ad delivery script to the one that includes the hacker code that shows a false update alert.
Computing Hackers are pushing the distribution of dangerous malware via WordPress websites through bogus Cloudflare distributed denial of service (DDoS) protection pages, a new report has found.
As reported by PCMag and Bleeping Computer, websites based on the WordPress format are being hacked by threat actors, with NetSupport RAT and a password-stealing trojan (RaccoonStealer) being installed if victims fall for the trick.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
