Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News DALL-E 3 could take AI image generation to the next level By Fionna Agomuoh Close OpenAI OpenAI might be preparing the next version of its DALL-E AI text-to-image generator with a series of alpha tests that have now been leaked to the public, according to the Decoder.
An anonymous leaker on Discord shared details about his experience, having access to the upcoming OpenAI image model being referred to as DALL-E 3. He first appeared in May, telling the interest-based Discord channel that he was part of an alpha test for OpenAI, trying out a new AI image model. He shared the images he generated at the time.
The May alpha test version had the ability to generate images of multiple aspect ratios inside the image model. YouTuber, MattVidPro AI then showcased several of the images that were generated in a 16:9 aspect ratio. This version also showed the model’s prowess for high-quality text production, which continues to be a pain point for rival models, even for top generators such as Stable Diffusion and Midjourney.
Some examples showcased images, such as text melded into a brick wall, a neon sign of words, a billboard sign in a city, a cake decoration, and a name etched into a mountain. The model maintains that DALL-E is good at generating people. One such image displayed a woman eating spaghetti at a party from a fisheye point of view.
OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch Amazon expands use of generative AI to summarize product reviews Stable Diffusion aims to fix its problem with generating fingers The leaker returned to the Discord channel in mid-July with more details and new images. He claimed to be a part of a “closed alpha” test version that included approximately 400 subjects. He added that he was invited to the trial via email and was also included in the testing of the original DALL-E and DALL-E 2.
 This is what led to the conclusion that the alpha test might be for DALL-E 3, though it has not been confirmed.
The model has been updated considerably between May and July. The leaker has showcased this by sharing images generated based on the same prompt, showing how powerful DALL-E 3 has gotten over time. The prompt reads a painting of a pink jester giving a high five to a panda while in a cycling competition. The bikes are made of cheese and the ground is very muddy. They are driving in a foggy forest. The panda is angry.
The May alpha produces the general scene that hits most of the points of the prompt. There’s a little distortion in the hands connecting, and the wheels of the bikes are yellow as opposed to being made of cheese. However, the July alpha is far more detailed, with the pink jester and the panda clearly high-fiving and the bicycle wheels made of cheese in several generations.
Meanwhile, in Midjourney, the jester is missing from the scene, the pandas are on motorcycles instead of bicycles. There are roads, instead of mud. The pandas are happy instead of angry.
There are a host of DALL-E 3 July alpha image examples that show the potential of the model. However, with the alpha test being uncensored, the leaker noted that also has the potential to generate scenes of “violence and nudity or copyrighted material such as company logos.” Some examples include a gory anime girl, a Game of Thrones character, a Grand Theft Auto V cover, a zombie Jesus eating a Subway sandwich, also suggesting mild gore, and Shrek being dug up from an archeological dig, among others.
MattVidPro AI noted that the image model generates images as if they’re supposed to be in a specific style.
DALL-E 2 launched in April 2022 but was heavily regulated with a waitlist due to its popularity and concerns about ethics and safety. The AI image generator became accessible to the public in September 2022.
Editors' Recommendations New ‘poisoning’ tool spells trouble for AI text-to-image tech Microsoft Bing and Edge are getting a big DALL-E 3 upgrade Midjourney’s new zoom-out feature is becoming the next big AI sensation Meta’s new AI app is both for patients with vocal cord damage and in-game NPCs This new Photoshop tool could bring AI magic to your images Artificial Intelligence Tech News Computing The latest development in artificial intelligence is a tool that allows you to edit an already-generated image to your specifications.
Say you wanted to "change the dimensions of a car or manipulate a smile into a frown with a simple click and drag," you could do so with this model called DragGAN.
Computing Remember the movie Her? We just took one step closer to that reality. Caryn Marjorie, a 23-year-old influencer, has used AI to create a virtual version of herself that acts as a romantic companion of sorts for thousands of her fans online who are willing to pay for this unique experience called CarynAI.
The technology is a voice-based chatbot that allows you to type and speak with Marjorie as if conversing with a girlfriend. Users are paying $1 per minute to engage with Marjorie's voice and likeness for several minutes to several hours.
Computing Google announced during its I/O developers conference on Wednesday its plans to launch a tool that will distinguish whether images that show up in its search results are AI-generated images.
With the increasing popularity of AI-generated content, there is a need to confirm whether the content is authentic -- as in created by humans -- or if it has been developed by AI.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
