Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features The ‘AI PC’ is coming for you, whether you like it or not By Fionna Agomuoh Close There isn’t a tech company in the world that isn’t trying to fashion itself as an AI innovator right now. But as an established PC brand, Lenovo has an edge in that it can easily bake AI into its products and services.
What exactly is an AI PC? The Lenovo lineup AMD’s perspective Is there more to it than that, though? The brand’s PCs have already benefitted from several AI features. Lenovo showcased this at its Tech World 2023 conference, with futuristic concepts like the personal AI twin , which will intuitively leverage on-device information in an AI-assistant fashion, and allow you to protect personal data from the web at large. Such projects are another step toward the “AI PC,” as it’s being called.
I had a chance to speak with several executives from Lenovo and its partner, AMD, to ask about what defines an AI PC and when consumers can expect to see them on the market. While answers varied slightly, the consensus was sooner than you might think. Here’s what they had to say.
I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC 5 things you should never do with your gaming laptop Your PC problem could probably be fixed with a BIOS update What exactly is an AI PC? Fionna Agomuoh / DigitalTrends First, I spoke to Lenovo CEO, Yuanquing Yang, who gave the room full of journalists his definition of the AI PC.
“You can say the AI PC is hardware, software, is everything,” he stated. “In our view, it should comprise the foundation model. So, you must have a strong enough CPU, plus GPU to increase your PC or smartphone computing capability. The AI PC should be much more powerful. Not just powerful chips, foundational models, and operating systems, but also rich applications as well.” Put simply, Lenovo sees the “AI PC” as a PC where AI is integrated at every level of the system, including both software and hardware. As an example, Lenovo Executive Vice President of Intelligent Devices Group, Luca Rossi, stepped in to mention the Legion brand of gaming notebooks as a form of AI PC that has already been on the market for over a year featuring the Ryzen AI chip.
“We apply certain AI techniques to improve the gaming experience. By making the machine understand what kind of usage model you’re going to do and then a machine fine tunes, the speed, the temperature, etc. So that is maybe a way to think about AI. Today, when we think about AI, everybody thinks about large language models, ChatGPT,” Rossi said.
I think it’s going to be one of the biggest things we’ve seen advancing the overall PC market.” He added that Intel’s upcoming Meteor Lake launch in December will introduce an AI-embedded CPU that will propel a new wave of Lenovo products.
“When? This quarter, meaning the quarter we are in, there are already some things on the market. More will come with this Meteor Lake launch. And then it will be a journey. As with everything, I think we should not ask ourselves when is the day that AI PC arrives because that will be a journey with more devices, more upgrades coming that will be a journey that will last probably a couple of years,” he added.
AMD Head of OEM PC Jason Banta told journalists that he believes the AI PC will be the next technological revolution since the graphical interface, highlighting that the AI capabilities that already benefit the cloud and servers will be brought to the hardware level.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends “Prior to this, you kind of just typed commands. It wasn’t quite as intuitive. You saw the graphical interface with the mouse, and it really changed the way you interacted the productivity. How you got things done, how it felt. I think AI PC is going to be that powerful if not more powerful,” Banta said.
He explained that the AI PC will personally assist you with tasks that are typically time-consuming and make them enjoyable, truly creating the productivity that has been marketed in PCs all along. He gave examples of the technology being beneficial for creative work, such as building artwork presentations or putting graphics together. Additionally, the AI PC will learn and adapt to your work style. Users should expect an emphasis on on-device security that can predict threats ahead of time.
“Doing it on the PC is going to save costs. Cloud AI is expensive. It’s something CIOs have to invest in. So, doing a lot of it directly on the PC is going to be advanced but also, it’s going to be more secure and more private. Being able to do that AI directly on your notebook, directly on your PC, the workstation, that’s going to bring a degree of privacy that you can’t get quite the same level in the public cloud today.” “There’s a lot of advancements. It’s going to move very, very fast. I think it’s going to be one of the biggest things we’ve seen advancing the overall PC market truly revolutionary for our space,” he added.
The Lenovo lineup Digital Trends Lenovo VP of the Workstation Business, Rob Herman noted that some of the company’s AI PCs include its ThinkPad Z13 Gen 2, Yoga Pro 7, ThinkPad T14s Gen 4, ThinkPad Z16 Gen 2, P620 Workstation, Legion Pro 5, Legion Go, and Legion Slim 5. These are among some of the best Lenovo laptops you can currently buy, all of which were on display during a talk with AMD executives.
“We already have some, we have some in the back. First of all, a workstation is an AI PC. It’s got so much GPU power. Then the processor inside and the memory that the processor empowers and enables. Those are all building blocks for driving AI development and driving the operation of AI,” he said.
Herman detailed that Lenovo has been expanding its workstation team to include client AI since 2017 and since then has been trickling down to more consumer-accessible products.
“We ship millions of AI PCs in the markets, and now, you’re seeing developers trying to understand it.
“So, we’re seeing NPUs and embedded AI engines coming into the PCs that are for every day,” he added.
Jason Banta reiterated that Lenovo has been progressive in introducing hardware products during the last CES that include neural processing and AI systems. Currently, it is the software developers and ecosystem that is catching up to hardware that is already prevalent.
“We ship millions of AI PCs in the markets, and now, you’re seeing developers trying to understand it, figure out how it works with their applications on a personalized level, making their apps better.” He noted that Lenovo is working with big brand partners such as Microsoft to help advance the hardware and software, but other software developers are also interested in learning about developing AI technology around hardware, which will grow the market of the AI PC and level of AI capability simultaneously.
“The software ecosystem leveraging and keeping up with that is also speeding up quite a bit. I think you’re going to see, even if you buy an AI PC today, what you can do on it today that same PC compared to what you can do in two or three years as the software and the applications change, it’s going to be a dramatic step function on that same thing. It’s both the software and the hardware advancing in parallel in that timeframe,” Banta said.
AMD’s perspective AMD AMD CVP Client Marketing, Gaston Sandoval also spoke on the software development side of the AI PC and how it’s connected to the hardware. He gave as an example, Microsoft’s recent unveiling of its Copilot AI service , which is largely cloud-based. However, the company has a vision to bring elements of the system on-device too, so it can be optimized for hardware.
“One of the things that I’m very excited about is how we are approaching it on the software side to make it easy for the developers to start tapping into the new edges quicker and developing new applications faster because we recognize that we are not even scratching the surface,” he said. “The faster we can make that software stack easy for developers to play with. We want to start to see more applications not only for various specific business environments but also for general consumers. So that they can see general corpus applications coming up.” Our goal is to make sure that developers worldwide are able to develop on our solutions.
AMD VP of Data Center Solutions Group, Robert Hormuth pointed out that as AI PCs become more commonplace many platforms may start to clash and there will be a need for standardization so they can work harmoniously.
“Doing this in a standardized way for the ecosystem is very important. Tell us you know PyTorch, TensorFlow, Onix. Our goal is to make sure that developers worldwide are able to develop on our solutions. We don’t want to implement things and then take them away,” he said.
“We want to make sure that we’re aligning with those standards because there’s so much development right now and everybody’s doing something different… As we do that, we’re making sure we’re doing that in ways that people can develop and develop quickly,” he added.
Companies like Lenovo and AMD consider themselves to be on the precipice of the AI PC. Having had building blocks in its enterprise space before now, seeing the success of the other brands has propelled Lenovo to showcase its progress and invest further. It will be fascinating to see how quickly the AI PC definition will update and solidify in the coming years, and if it truly lives up to the hype.
Editors' Recommendations Upgrade your PC or start from scratch? Here’s our definitive guide on the question Whatever you do, don’t buy an Nvidia GPU right now I tested Intel’s new overclocking tool, and it does AI all wrong Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over AMD’s FSR 3 will finally get a chance to shine in Starfield Features Lenovo Computing Nvidia makes some of the best graphics cards, but most of them are ridiculously expensive. In fact, some of them are so pricey that you could build a whole gaming PC for the price of one GPU. This is where AMD has an edge -- it doesn't just have more affordable graphics cards, but it also makes processors to match.
By choosing AMD, you might be able to get more bang for your buck than if you were to pick an Intel CPU and an Nvidia GPU. So I did it, picking out all the components for a build you could go out and build today for the price of a single GPU.
Why AMD is a better choice Computing Alan Wake 2 is one of the most beautiful games I've ever played -- and it's the frontrunner for the most demanding PC game you can currently run. For as impressive as the game is, from its path-traced reflections to the extensive use of Nvidia tech, it's so demanding that some otherwise-powerful PCs won't be able to post playable frame rates.
It's clear developer Remedy set out to create a certain atmosphere with Alan Wake 2 that can only be captured with photorealistic visuals. That said, Alan Wake 2 is proof that more PC games need to adopt a stripped-back graphics setting, even if that means sacrificing a part of what makes the game special.
What in the world is a potato mode? A potato mode is something so easy to run that you could run it on a potato -- not literally, of course, but that's the sentiment. It's a kill switch graphics option that will only be used by a small fraction of PCs, but it can help the least powerful (and least expensive) rigs at least run an otherwise demanding PC game.
Computing Lenovo showcased its progress and aspirations at its Tech World 2023 keynote on Tuesday, announcing its "AI for All" concept, which is aimed at spreading AI goodness to as many commercial and personal spaces as possible. But the idea of an "AI twin" was what caught my attention most as an attendee.
Yes, the idea of a company creating an AI twin of you online sounds downright disturbing -- but don't worry, in practice it's not as creepy as it might appear. The general idea is for an AI assistant that has "in-depth knowledge" of you and, perhaps, your company, which will allow it to perform intelligent tasks on your behalf.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
