Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News HP’s new foldable PC is a dream — except for one glaring problem By Fionna Agomuoh Close HP We’ve seen a handful of foldable PCs over the past couple of years, such as the Asus Zenbook Fold 17 , but HP might be the one that finally nails the design. The HP Spectre Fold looks like the answer foldable laptops have been waiting for, except for one major issue — its price.
At $5,000, it’s the most expensive foldable we’ve seen so far. It’s $1,500 more than the Zenbook Fold 17, and twice the price of the Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Fold Gen 2.
 How does HP justify the price? It all comes down to design.
HP has staked the claim of releasing the world’s smallest and thinnest 17-inch foldable PC. Much of that has to do with the battery, which HP distributed across the machine to balance the weight regardless of the orientation you use the device in.
HP The HP Spectre Fold features a 17-inch 2.5K (1920 x 2560) resolution OLED touch display, with a 3:4 aspect ratio, 400 nits standard brightness and 500 nits brightness in HDR , 99.5% DCI-P3, VESA True Black HDR 500, and TÜV+Eyesafe. The display is also the first foldable screen that is Imax Enhanced certified. Though this device introduces a foldable panel and integrated hinge, HP said the testing done on the display is on par with the standards of its traditional laptops.
As a pro PC builder, here are 5 building tips no one tells you This midrange HP laptop beats the Dell XPS 15 in one important way This dual-PC desktop is insane in more ways than one It’s the 3-in-1 nature of this device, as HP refers to it, that makes it stand out. The HP Spectre Fold folds into a 12.3-inch laptop, but it also includes a one-and-a-half screen expanded mode where you can slide down the keyboard for an extended view. It also has a dual screen extended mode for when you remove the Bluetooth keyboard.
In addition, its built-in kickstand allows for the device to be used in a desktop or standing tablet style. Even more impressive is that HP is able to manage all of these modes. You can snap windows to the bottom of the display in its laptop mode, and view multiple windows when you detach the keyboard (which charges while magnetically connected to the device).
The artificial intelligence support within the Spectre Fold enables several features, including, walk away lock, wake-on approach, auto screen dimming, and privacy alerts.
HP Hardware on the Spectre Fold PC includes the 12th-gen Intel Core i7 processor and Intel Iris Xe graphics, in addition to 16GB of memory and a 1TB SSD. There’s a 6-cell, 94.3 watt-hour battery, which HP claims can support 12 hours of power in laptop mode and 11 hours in desktop mode. For software, the device runs Windows 11.
Connectivity includes Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.3, while the foldable features a 5-megapixel camera, which includes a privacy switch. Input includes two Thunderbolt 4 ports with a 40Gbps signaling rate, including support for USB Power Delivery and DisplayPort 1.4.
The HP Spectre Foldable is available for preorder as of Thursday at BestBuy.com for $5,000, and will also sell at HP.com and Best Buy locations in limited quantities starting in October. HP says more regions will receive the device later this fall.
Editors' Recommendations Your PC problem could probably be fixed with a BIOS update Logitech’s new Pro X peripherals are stunning, but I only recommend one of them I’ve reviewed all the best new laptops this year — here are the ones I recommend I tested Nvidia’s new RTX feature, and it fixed the worst part of PC gaming No one is buying new graphics cards right now Tech News Computing MSI has just unveiled a slew of new products at Computex 2023, and some of its new high-end motherboards might catch your eye. One model stands out in particular: the mysterious B650M motherboard titled "Project Zero." The board is promising if you want to achieve the cleanest look yet with your next PC build. There's one problem, though -- even if you get it, you might not be able to use it.
Computing The death of PC gaming. That's been the topic at hand for the past several weeks, with port after port after port arriving on PC in disastrous states. PC gaming isn't dead, but if this trend continues, it's hard to recommend picking up any new release on PC, at least before it receives a string of inevitable patches.
I wish I could provide a single solution for the problems PC games face, but I can't. The list is massive. But there's one area of focus that could help the situation a lot, and it's where consoles still have a lead over PC.
The source of stutter These frame time spikes manifest as severe stutters in Gotham Knights. Image used with permission by copyright holder Computing Nvidia is introducing its new NeMo Guardrails tool for AI developers, and it promises to make AI chatbots like ChatGPT just a little less insane. The open-source software is available to developers now, and it focuses on three areas to make AI chatbots more useful and less unsettling.
The tool sits between the user and the Large Language Model (LLM) they're interacting with. It's a safety for chatbots, intercepting responses before they ever reach the language model to either stop the model from responding or to give it specific instructions about how to respond.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
