Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features I finally upgraded my Google One storage. Here’s why I might never do it again By Fionna Agomuoh Close As a technology journalist and food photography enthusiast, I can collect thousands of images at a rapid pace.
A thankless task One step forward, two steps back Double charge debacle Not a long-term solution And if you’ve also spent a considerable amount of time online, there’s a good chance you’re connected to some sort of paid cloud storage. For me, that system is Google One. I got sucked in back when Google storage was free, but around 2019, the paid Google One subscription service was established. At $20 per year for 100GB of storage, it was a no-brainer for someone like myself, who stores a ton of data online. But a few years on, I’m in the exact same situation I was before. I need more storage space.
The problem is that Google One encompasses all of the data on a single Google account, including emails, photos, Workspace files, Drive files , and more. Everyone’s storage patterns are a little different. A personal account account will likely be vastly different than a business account. A personal account used for work will vary as well. But I imagine most people fall into the same camp as I do. Over 80GB on my account was being used to support Google Photos.
A thankless task Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends In mid-2020, my 100GB Google One account approached 85% capacity, and I began receiving notices from Google that I should delete data from my account to prevent it from hitting the limit. One of the primary consequences of an account at capacity is that it won’t be able to send or receive emails. Similarly, Google One won’t be able to back up Google Photos, Google Doc files, Drive files, or any other data connected to the cloud service.
Immediately I began the thankless task of attempting to clear my over 50,000-email-deep inbox. This was thankless indeed. While I dashed away thousands of emails and cut my primary inbox in half for a time, it barely put a dent in the percentage of storage I had used up. My Gmail only accounted for about 5GB of my Google One account. And I was only tackling the unread, easy-to-find emails.
Eventually, I shifted my focus to the culprit, Google Photos. I began deleting long-forgotten memes, duplicate images, shaky and blurry photos, shots for which I no longer understood the context, and images that elicited painful memories. This still was of little consequence to my overall storage percentage. I considered the full extent of my miserly storage habits. Many of my work galleries of several smartphones and laptops stayed. I also have countless videos from concerts and other shows that surely take up a considerable amount of space in Google Photos.
I mildly considered other storage options. I could switch some content to an SD card or hard drive. I have a Microsoft 365 subscription that includes 1TB of cloud storage as well. Both of these options have the potential to be manually intensive to transfer or might require a syncing tool or service to move data. They might also lack the automatic categorization I already have in Google Photos. Still, having a backup option for all of this data isn’t a bad idea.
One step forward, two steps back If you’ve gone through a similar arc as I did, you already see the writing on the walls. You can never quite delete enough to reclaim the space you need.
Time quickly went by and soon I was going to media events, restaurants, and shows again. Around mid-2022, the time approached when my subscription would renew. I’d already gone a full year treating the capacity warning as a mild suggestion rather than a dire need for intervention. I’d developed a steady habit of deleting unnecessary emails and photos and kept my account at about 90%.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Still, I considered upgrading to a 200GB capacity at that point. This would bring my yearly charge to $30, but going through the Photos account page on my phone, Google explained that if I upgraded ahead of my renewal date, I wouldn’t be charged again until January 2024. I intended to upgrade, but I forgot and another year went by.
Fast forward to mid-2023, I received an email confirming the automatic renewal of my 100GB Google One subscription. It was then I remembered that I wanted to upgrade to the 200GB plan. After a short inner struggle, I decided to bite the bullet and subscribe to the higher tier.
Double charge debacle Now, I was at the point in my journey where I had to come to terms with the fact that I had just double-paid for Google One. At first, I was going to let it slide, but I was sure there had to be a way to get my money back. I’ve heard horror stories about Google’s help line and customer service, but the least I could do is try, right? A few browser searches and a couple of clicks later, I was directed to another Google account page where I could report an issue. I’ve since figured out a more streamlined method of accessing this page, but it still gets you to where you need to go.
Fionna Agomuoh / Digital Trends If you need to request a refund for Google One (or other purchases through Google), follow these steps to save yourself a headache: Select your icon on your Google account.
Select Manage your Google account.
Select payments & subscriptions.
Scroll down and select Send feedback.
Select Report an issue.
Select Other and type out your issue.
I was happy that I figured this method out with little to no challenge. Even better, my issue was resolved in a matter of days. Especially considering the problem was due to my absent-mindedness, letting my subscription be auto-renewed and then deciding to purchase the additional storage separately wasn’t a huge deal. During this ordeal, I realized what I thought was a renewal deal appears to just be how Google does its upgrades, and my account won’t be charged again until late-January 2025.
It’s a small note, but something important to consider if you’re going to upgrade.
Not a long-term solution Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Overall, I am satisfied having finally proceeded with my upgrade. Having the extra storage has quelled my anxiousness about running out at an inopportune time. More importantly, it has given me extra time to consider my long-term backup strategy.
Google tells me I have about four years before I’ll need more storage, and it’s my intent to keep working through emails and deleting old photos when I can. But that’s the tricky thing about cloud storage. Try as I might, I’ll probably hit the ceiling again before long. Currently, my Google One account stands at approximately 97GB used, with my Google Photos taking up about 86GB of that data. You do the math.
Ultimately, the only solution for long-term data conservation is high-capacity, offline storage. It’s been years since I’ve had a hard drive, so that might account for my hesitation. But I’m leaning toward the safety of a physical backup, while sorting out which of my files are the most important. When it comes to actively moving content, as much as I hate to admit it, I know I have numerous images and videos that can be stored in a less ceremonious fashion than Google Photos.
Meanwhile, my mind will churn and hopefully I won’t be faced with the same dilemma in 2027.
Features Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
