Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features I tried Lenovo’s first water-cooled gaming laptop, and I was blown away By Fionna Agomuoh Close Fionna Agomuoh / Digital Trends Lenovo has some of the best gaming laptops on the market, and it has extensively built its line to offer a range of configurations for different scenarios. The new Legion 9i Pro, however, is something special.
Specs Design Display Keyboard and trackpad Ports and connectivity Performance and battery life Price and availability From specs alone, it’s one of the fastest gaming laptops money can buy, offering up to an RTX 4090 and Intel’s Core i9-13980HX. But the specs aren’t what stand out here. Lenovo has taken this device to the next level with water cooling, an ultra-bright mini-LED display, 140 watts of USB-C charging, and so much more. It’s not here yet, but the Legion Pro 9i might be Lenovo’s best laptop yet.
I tested the laptop at a preview event in New York ahead of its upcoming release and got an idea of where the line is headed.
The MacBook Pro 14 still obliterates this Windows laptop The Lenovo Yoga Book 9i is the Surface Neo I always wanted Lenovo tweaks design and powers up its excellent Legion 5 Pro gaming laptops Specs Lenovo Legion Pro 9i Dimensions 14.08x 10.93x 0.74–0.89-inches Weight 5.64 pounds Processor 13th Generation Intel Core i9-13980HX Graphics Up to NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4090 RAM 64GB 5600Mhz Dual Channel DDR5 32GB 6400Mhz Dual Channel DDR5 Display 16-inches, 3.2K, 165Hz Storage Up to 2TB PCIe 4.0 NVMe SSD Touch No Ports Left Side 1 x Audio Combo Jack 1 x SD Card Reader 3.0 Right Side 1 x USB Type C (USB 3.2 Gen1) 1 x USB Type A (USB 3.2 Gen 1) 1 x E-Shutter Button Rear 1 x DC-Inface 1 x USB Type-A 3.2 Gen1 (Always-on 5V2A) 2 x Thunderbolt 4 (3.2 Gen, DisplayPort 1.4, 140W Power Delivery) 1 x HDMI 2.1 1 x RJ45 Wireless Up to 2 x 2 WiFi 7, Bluetooth 5.1 Webcam Built-in 1080p webcam with e-shutter Operating system Windows 11 Home, Windows 11 Pro Battery Up to 99.99 watt-hours, Super Rapid Charge (30 min 0-70%, 80 min 0-100% charge) Price, Availability $4,400, October Design The Lenovo Legion 9i is a handsome device indeed. The most striking aspect of its design is its forged carbon top cover, which resembles military fatigues. The design of each system is notably unique due to the manufacturing process. Having spoken with Lenovo earlier this summer about its recycling and sustainability efforts , the company explained how it uses reclaimed waste material from other industries as a source for new products. It’s fascinating to see the designs actualized on devices set for the market.
Fionna Agomuoh / Digital Trends Lenovo said the forged carbon helps lighten the weight of the Legion 9i, in comparison to other woven carbon materials used on older models. However, I found this laptop to still be rather hefty at approximately 5.64 pounds, and this is just its starting weight. It exceeds the 5.5-pound aluminum-built Legion 7 by several ounces, and I rated that device as sturdy, especially considering its premium materials.
While the Legion 9i might be made of lighter materials, its recycled magnesium alloy frame is wider and thicker at 14.08 inches by 10.93 inches by 0.74 to 0.89 inches. That could easily account for a weight difference. The size difference between the machines is notable considering they both have the same 16-inch display size.
For splashes of color, the laptop has an array of RGB lighting options, including its Legion Spectrum per-key RGB keyboard and strips of RGB lighting on its rear base, right above its ports, and at the front underside of the laptop. The Legion logo in the upper-right corner also glows with RGB. These effects make for great aesthetics, and they are software-controllable.
Rounding out the standard design features are a 1080p built-in webcam with a privacy e-shutter, which is among the ports along the side of the system.
Display The display on the Legion 9i has gotten some boosts and tweaks, but overall remains fairly standard year-over-year. It is a 16-inch 3.2K (3200 x 2000) display with a 16:10 aspect ratio and 500 nit peak brightness, with a mini-LED option that goes up to 1200 nits peak brightness. It has a 165Hz refresh rate, which is not bad for a gaming-focused laptop, but I’ve seen Lenovo go higher.
Fionna Agomuoh / Digital Trends The display also features a 3-millisecond response time, 100% Adobe and DCI-P3 coverage, up to VESA DisplayHDR 1000 certification, Dolby Vision support, Nvidia G-Sync, and TÜV Rheinland certification.
Still, this configuration offers the Legion 9i a striking in-person brightness and quality I don’t often associate with gaming laptops.
 Testing high-definition imagery from YouTube presented the best results I’ve seen on a Legion model. Viewing commentary videos about Samurai Champloo was an overall quality experience as well.
It’s the resolution of the display, combined with a mini-LED backlight, that could be killer for gaming. The machine certainly packs enough power to drive such a display, and we only rarely see displays with such high specs, like the one featured on the Asus ROG Zephyrus M16.
Keyboard and trackpad The Legion 9i features a full-size keyboard and a slimmer trackpad. Another design and functionality feature of the laptop is its wide cooling vent set at the top of the base near the display. This pushes the keyboard toward the center and also makes less room for a larger trackpad, which is often a more typical design for such a device.
Fionna Agomuoh / Digital Trends These tweaks add to the unique look of the Legion 9i, but admittedly left me a bit clumsy when attempting to use the keyboard. I found myself having to intentionally stretch between keys. Row-style typing was out of the question. Luckily, with 1.5-millimeter travel, actually pressing the keys wasn’t an issue. I usually find myself pretty comfortable with large and rugged laptops, but the Legion 9i still felt a bit awkward. Perhaps more time with the Legion 9i would get me used to the keyboard setup.
With the Legion 9i cooling system surrounding the keyboard and trackpad, this is the first laptop that uses cold water cooling that doesn’t require an external pump. The system is co-engineered with Cooler Master. It intakes air through the vents at top, which are comprised of over 6,000 individual holes, and exhausts air from the sides, back, and bottom of the system, where more vents are found. The heat sink goes over the VRAM and GPU in the laptop, allowing these components to remain as cool as possible during power-intensive processes, such as extended gaming sessions, without frame dropping or throttling.
Ports and connectivity Lenovo continues its tradition by offering a vast array of input options for the Legion 9i. Gamers, student, and workers alike shouldn’t want for ports, plugs, readers, and buttons with this device. The brand noted that the Thunderbolt ports included allow for charging, though you’ll need the AC adapter to run the machine at its full power.
There are inputs to be found on practically all sides of the laptop. The RGB lighting on the rear base acts as a helpful guide for the ports stationed there. The rear is outfitted with one USB-A 3.2 Gen 1 port, two Thunderbolt 4 ports (3.2 Gen, DisplayPort 1.4, 140W Power Delivery), one HDMI 2.1 port, and one RJ45 jack.
Fionna Agomuoh / Digital Trends The left side features one audio combo jack and one SD card reader 3.0. The right side includes one USB-C port (USB 3.2 Gen 1), one USB-A port (USB 3.2 Gen 1), and one E-Shutter Button.
The Lenovo Legion 9i connects to 2 x 2 Intel Wi-Fi 7 (802.11 ax). I had no issues connecting to Wi-Fi at the demo space, and loading webpages and YouTube videos went off without a hitch. The laptop also supports Bluetooth 5.1.
For audio, the device includes 2 x 2 watt speakers with Nahimic Audio.
Performance and battery life With this model being the Lenovo Legion 9i, it is specific to Intel processors. It is powered by the 13th Generation Intel Core i9-13980HX.
Currently, this assessment is based on a preview event. We’ll have to do a full review to determine the detailed performance of this gaming laptop in the future.
Lenovo says graphics on the Legion 9i start with the Nvidia GeForce RTX 4080, with an option to upgrade to the Nvidia GeForce RTX 4090. There’s also 32GB 6400Mhz and 64GB 5600Mhz dual-channel DDR5 overclocked memory. Storage includes up to a 2TB PCIe 4.0 NVMe SSD.
The Legion 9i features a 99.99 watt-hour battery, which appears to be Lenovo’s market max at the moment, as it is the largest capacity battery legally allowed in a computer system when flying. It’s been seen on several prior models and the brand has refused to budge any higher. It also has the same Super Rapid Charge support, which equates to the addition of 30 watt-hours in a 10-minute charge, a zero to 70% charge in 30 minutes, and a zero to 100% charge in 80 minutes.
Price and availability The Lenovo Legion 9i will be available in October starting at $4,400.
Editors' Recommendations This new gaming laptop might have water cooling and an RTX 4090 As a laptop reviewer, this is the CES 2023 laptop I’m most excited for Lenovo’s gorgeous new redesign of Yoga laptops brings rounded edges, OLED screens Lenovo updates popular Legion gaming laptops with new Intel and Nvidia hardware Lenovo’s bevy of new Legion gaming laptops go all-in on Ryzen 5000 Features Lenovo Computing Lenovo has never been shy about its experimental designs, from the keyboard-free Yoga Book to the foldable ThinkPad X1 Fold. Today, Lenovo added some interesting new devices to the list: The Yoga 9i and IdeaPad Slim 9i, two laptops that exchange typical plastic and aluminum materials for more refined textures like glass and leather. These are some of the most daring laptops designs I've seen in years.
Let's start with the cover of the lid. Lenovo is using authentic black leather, partnering with the same leather developers that have worked with popular fashion brands. That's a good sign, because pleather on a laptop won't do it any favors.
Computing Lenovo is launching a series of new gaming laptops, including one powered by AMD's new Ryzen 4000 processors. The AMD Legion 5 is an alternative to the Legion 5i, which runs on traditional 10th-gen Intel processors.
Lenovo has also followed up on pricing, availability, and more specifics behind the rest of its lineup of Legion gaming devices for 2020.
Lenovo Legion 5 Computing Last year, Lenovo introduced a series of redesigned Legion devices, and the same theme is now continuing into CES 2019. Following along with trends set by the Razer Blade 15, Lenovo's new Legion Y740 and Y540 for 2019 come clad with thin designs, improved cooling, and next-generation Nvidia GPUs.
Legion Y740 Previous Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
