Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Lenovo wants to create your own personal ‘AI twin’ By Fionna Agomuoh Close Fionna Agomuoh / Digital Trends Lenovo showcased its progress and aspirations at its Tech World 2023 keynote on Tuesday, announcing its “AI for All” concept, which is aimed at spreading AI goodness to as many commercial and personal spaces as possible. But the idea of an “AI twin” was what caught my attention most as an attendee.
Yes, the idea of a company creating an AI twin of you online sounds downright disturbing — but don’t worry, in practice it’s not as creepy as it might appear. The general idea is for an AI assistant that has “in-depth knowledge” of you and, perhaps, your company, which will allow it to perform intelligent tasks on your behalf.
In many ways, Lenovo’s personal AI twin works identically to any AI assistant. With the data it gathers from from a user’s personal device, it will anticipate your needs and offer solutions, proactively and independently, Lenovo CEO Yang Yuanqing said at the Tech World keynote.
Fionna Agomuoh The brand demoed the tool, comparing how it could draft an itinerary for a trip to Sweden for a specific time frame in less than 150 words against a standard AI assistant. While the standard AI assistant gave a generic plan that it might generate for anyone, Lenovo’s personal AI twin generated a trip schedule based on the user’s personal tastes, including giving the best airports to fly out of, suggesting specific restaurants, and giving detailed activities to do while traveling.
The ‘AI PC’ is coming for you, whether you like it or not Most people distrust AI and want regulation, says new survey Google Bard could soon become your new AI life coach That might sound invasive from a data privacy standpoint, but Lenovo intends for the tool to have a strong focus on data privacy, with the AI only learning about the things you want it to learn, Dr. Yong Rui, Lenovo’s chief technology officer, told journalists at the event. As PCs become more inundated with artificial intelligence and on-device processing of AI, an AI twin is there to help users control the flow of their private data on the web.
In a later demo, a guide demonstrated the tool answering based on information stored locally on a device. He inputted his query and populated an answer. Then he showed where on the computer the file with the applicable information was located.
The company also highlighted that the tool is powerful enough to be used offline. The keynote demo was done in airplane mode, while the second demo was not connected to the internet. Dr. Rui noted that the foundational models on which the AI twin is based is so compressed that it can work without talking to the cloud at all.
Lenovo envisions a tool that ensures data is never sent to the public cloud, unless you give authorization. The tool functions using public databases, but does not extract from users’ data to train public models. The encroaching on users’ private data for public and corporate consumption has been an ongoing concern about the quickly developing AI space that isn’t stopping any time soon.
The personal AI twin effort is still in a development stage and the company has yet to decide how it will present the tool, whether it be an app or another experience. Ultimately, it will be up to customers, Dr. Rui said.
Either way, like so many tech companies these days, Lenovo certainly seems all-in on embracing AI with open arms.
Lenovo says the keynote was an “announcement of development,” adding that the tool is ready to be shipped with devices but the brand cannot share an exact timeline for availability.
Editors' Recommendations Windows 11 will soon harness your GPU for generative AI Meta just created a Snoop Dogg AI for your text RPGs Microsoft says bizarre travel article was not created by ‘unsupervised AI’ AI can now steal your passwords with almost 100% accuracy — here’s how Hackers are using AI to create vicious malware, says FBI Lenovo Tech News Computing These days, it seems like everyone and their dog is working artificial intelligence (AI) into their tech products, from ChatGPT in your web browser to click-and-drag image editing. The latest example is Adobe Photoshop, but this isn’t just another cookie-cutter quick fix -- no, it could have a profound effect on imagery and image creators.
Photoshop’s newest feature is called Generative Fill, and it lets you use text prompts to automatically adjust areas of an image you are working on. This might let you add new features, adjust existing elements, or remove unwanted sections of the picture by typing your request into the app.
Computing Want ChatGPT closer to hand? One of the best ways to have quick and easy access to ChatGPT is through its range of Chrome extensions. They also give you better ways of using ChatGPT, including helping you to write better prompts to get improved responses, or granting ChatGPT the ability to search the internet, which provides access to more up-to-date information.
Here are the best ChatGPT Chrome extensions you can use right now.
Computing Of all the use cases for generative AI out there, I can't think of one more significant than video games. Sure, we've seen people create simple games from GPT-4 -- but surely, I assumed a technology this powerful was being discussed at the higher levels of game development too.
To get an idea of how big of a shift this could be, I wanted to talk to someone who actually understands how games are made on a technical level. Marc Whitten, Senior Vice President and General Manager of Unity Create, is surely one such person. He's particularly excited about how AI could transform game development, and we spoke about how the tools that could enable that revolution are already making their way to creators.
Faster create time Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
