Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Recall an Email in Outlook Schedule an Email in Outlook Change Signature in Outlook Set an Out of Office in Outlook Share Outlook Calendar Home Computing News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Microsoft is finally fixing one of the worst parts of Outlook By Fionna Agomuoh Close Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Microsoft Outlook is set to get an update that will address the size limit that is currently in place when sharing files on the email service. In the future, instead of attachment limits, users will be able to upload files to OneDrive and share them through email.
The way Microsoft Outlook is set up makes it challenging for users to attach and send large files. It is easy to exceed the maximum size limit and be unable to send certain files through Outlook.
However, the planned update would allow you to dip into Microsoft’s OneDrive cloud storage to complete the task. Explaining the function on the official Microsoft 365 road map , the brand said that if you attempt to attach Outlook files that reach the maximum size limit or if an attachment causes an email to go over the 20MB size limit, you will be prompted to upload the file via OneDrive for easier sharing.
Common Microsoft Teams problems and how to fix them Microsoft just made Outlook a lot easier to use Google Calendar just fixed one of its most irritating bugs Microsoft is expected to deploy the feature in September 2023, first to Android users, with other platforms set to follow not long after.
The update will be especially useful to those using the free version of Microsoft Outlook and who have the most restrictive Outlook and OneDrive limits. The brand has made its Outlook free storage capacity 15GB, while its OneDrive free capacity is 5GB. With the update, free Microsoft users have 20GB of storage to juggle between the two services.
Still, the limits are likely the brand’s efforts to convert more free users to its paid Microsoft 365 services. Paid options would include larger storage capacities and less opportunity for email congestion. They would also be financially advantageous for the company.
Microsoft isn’t the only brand using storage limits on free accounts to encourage users to buy into its ecosystem. Google offers 15GB of storage with a free Gmail account, which also encompasses its Google Photos, Google Workspace, Google Drive, and other services that are initially free. However, these services can also quickly eat up storage, after which Google suggests two options, delete data to clear storage or purchase additional storage with its Google One plans.
Editors' Recommendations Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld Microsoft admits defeat on its controversial OneDrive change Google’s answer to Microsoft Copilot is finally here I tested Nvidia’s new RTX feature, and it fixed the worst part of PC gaming Surface repair parts are now available via Microsoft Store Business Microsoft Tech News Computing Microsoft has announced the rollout of several anticipated features for Teams, including avatar support and immersive spaces.
The company is showcasing the new features during its annual Build developer conference, which is currently taking place from May 23 through May 25.
Computing Microsoft has remained diligently dedicated to its proprietary Surface Connect port over the years. But now, Microsoft is swapping out its proprietary Surface Connect port for a more conventional Thunderbolt 4 on the latest version of its Surface Dock, which the company announced on Tuesday.
This is a first for Microsoft, which has used its proprietary Surface Connect port since 2014 starting with the Surface Pro 3.
Computing Microsoft is finally making the version of Bing Chat we heard about in February a reality. The latest version of Microsoft Edge (111.0.1661.41) includes the Bing Copoilot sidebar, which allows you to chat, generate AI content, and get insights into topics powered by AI.
This is the form of Bing Chat Microsoft originally pitched. Since its launch, the chat portion of Bing Chat has been available through a waitlist that, according to Microsoft, has amassed millions of sign-ups. However, Microsoft also talked about Bing Copilot, which would live in the Edge sidebar and open up the possibility of generating emails, blog posts, and more, as well as provide context for whatever web page you were on.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
