Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Cherry MX just transformed its entire key switch lineup By Fionna Agomuoh Close The latest mechanical keyboard switch by German peripheral maker Cherry is now available for preorder, and it features a number of design updates to its decades-old mechanical keyboard switches.
The Cherry MX2A is a full-size switch, intended to appeal to a range of consumers, from enthusiasts to gamers, to professionals. The switch is compatible with the highly customizable Cherry XTRFY K5V2 gaming keyboard, which the brand also announced on Thursday.
Cherry / Cherry Cherry has been well-known for its mechanical switches for several decades, and also for its silent keyboards. Cherry said the upgrade of the MX2A focuses on making the switch, “smoother, more responsive, and incredibly durable,” adding that the product has a “guaranteed life span of more than 100 million actuations.” This is the number of times the switch can successfully be pressed.
The brand stated that a smooth, responsive typing experience was an important quality point to hit. It also worked on improving the profile of the typing sound to be more aesthetically pleasing.
This glass mechanical keyboard has an entire computer inside I built my own gaming keyboard for the price of buying one — and it’s so much better Intel may have just leaked its Arc Alchemist GPU lineup The switch includes a technology that allows for smoother actuation because of a premium-grade lubricant applied to an inner socket of the product. It also includes a redesigned spring that remains almost contactless within the casing of the switch, assisting in sound and precision, and also reducing friction.
With the intent of having the MX2A switch line customizable to different keyboards, Cherry will offer full-size options including MX Red, MX Brown, MX Black, MX Speed Silver, and MX Silent Red, in addition to RGB options. The MX Blue is an engineering exception and will maintain its clicky aspect due to not having the same lubrication and barrel spring design as other variants, Cherry said.
The Cherry XTRFY K5V2 mechanical keyboard is the first peripheral to feature the MX2A switch. The K5V2 is a 65% format gaming key that is extremely customizable. Most details of the accessory can be changed, including the switches, stabilizers, keycaps, cables, frame, and logo plate. It features per-key customization for RGB lighting, macros, media controls, and other features. There is a super-scan technology that tracks keystrokes down to every half millisecond and also detects the LED RGB lighting strips. The K5V2 build includes a metal plate base and pre-lubed PCB-mounted stabilizers. Cherry notes that the keyboard requires no software and all settings are adjusted with the keys.
The Cherry MX2A switch is currently available for preorder through B2B channels and will soon go on sale for retail customers and DIY enthusiasts. The Cherry XTRFY K5V2 is set to launch later this year, with other keyboards compatible with the MX2A switch expected to follow.
Editors' Recommendations Asus just embarrassed everyone with its new gaming keyboard What are hot-swappable keyboard switches? Logitech’s new MX keyboard brings mechanical switches to the masses Corsair relaunches popular gaming keyboard with optical switches AMD just revealed some key details about its upcoming Zen 4 processors Tech News Computing If you're a fan of nostalgia and have a Nintendo GameCube console laying around, you will want to check out the keyboard controller that's been modified into a mechanical keyboard by Redditer Holychipmunk. Nintendo originally sold a keyboard that was sandwiched between gaming controllers for the console -- think the Nintendo Switch, but with a mechanical keyboard where the built-in screen is. Unfortunately, that contraption was too big and unwieldy.
The modified hack looks a lot more chic and elegant, complete with controller buttons and keys that are decked out in a Vilebloom color theme that goes from a light shade of pastel peach to pink to a rich, dark teal hue. Even the controller buttons have been swapped out to match the Vilebloom colorway on the keyboard's keys for a completely cohesive look.
Computing Cherry MX mechanical switches are famous in PC gaming land, but they've never made their way to a gaming laptop. That changes today with the Alienware m15 and m17 R4, the first laptops to feature the chunky, clicky switches under their keyboards.
Of course, you can't just squeeze the high-travel Cherry MX Red or Blue switches into a laptop without sacrificing modern portability standards -- there's nowhere near enough space.
Computing The Logitech MX Master 3 has been a popular mouse for Mac enthusiasts, but now Logitech has launched a model specifically made for Apple compatibility. The MX Master 3 for Mac costs $99 and brings some Mac-specific details and features that its predecessors lacked. Logitech also launched a corresponding keyboard, the $99 MX Keys for Mac.
These were already fantastic Logitech peripherals. But do these Apple-specific versions make for the ultimate Mac accessories? Logitech MX Master 3 for Mac Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
