Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Opera GX is getting proprietary AI to make you a better gamer By Fionna Agomuoh Close Opera The Opera GX gaming browser — which is among the best browsers around — has been updated with the brand’s proprietary AI writing assistant called Aria. It allows you to execute tasks such as asking questions, writing code, sprucing up communication, and learning how to navigate the ever-changing web landscape.
The tool is currently available to Opera GX Early Bird users. Gamers can use Aria to learn more about the latest gaming news and to easily find gaming tips with AI prompts. According to the press release, these could be based around news, such as “Has Starfield finally launched yet?,” as well as tips, such as “How to beat the Juggernaut in Armored Core 6? ” “Aria is based on Opera’s own Composer AI engine and connects to OpenAI’s GPT. Aria is enhanced by additional capabilities such as adding live results from the web, and is accessible directly from Opera GX for free,” Opera product director Maciej Kocemba told Digital Trends.
The ‘AI PC’ is coming for you, whether you like it or not You can finally use Adobe’s game-changing AI features in Photoshop, Premiere, and After Effects You can now ‘expand’ images in Photoshop using AI Tools like ChatGPT can answer basic questions, but it’s the proprietary nature of Aria that stands out. According to Opera, that allows the AI to access up-to-date information, enabling it to quickly summarize updates in games like Diablo IV, and provide tips in brand new releases like Starfield.
Another new AI feature added to Opera GX allows you to use hotkeys to interact with Aria. You can input Ctrl+ / on Windows and Cmd+ / on Mac to trigger the tool and begin to type in a prompt.
Aria is simple to access from the sidebar of the Opera GX browser. Once enabled, you need only sign in to your Opera account, or sign up for a free account. To enable the tool, you must access Early Bird in Settings > Aria Extension > Aria Command Line.
Aria is now available in over 180 countries including on the Opera GX browser for Windows and MacOS and on the Opera One browser for Windows, Mac, Android , and iOS.
The Opera GX browser , which initially launched in 2019, is also designed with many of the top gaming-associated apps and programs easily accessible, including Twitch, Discord, Reddit, and YouTube, among others.
“It’s now being used by more than 23 million monthly active users. GX has a very loyal and active community of gamers using it. We hope they will find Aria useful for their gaming needs and beyond,” Kocemba said.
With several tech companies inundating their browsers with AI-powered features, the brand also introduced a redesigned Opera One as its flagship browser in late April. The browser includes ChatGPT and ChatSonic login shortcuts, in addition to the beta integration of Opera’s own AI features. This would be announced as Aria in late May.
Aria is also connected to Opera’s AI Prompts browser feature, which allows you to highlight text within the browser and turn this into a prompt to gather contextual information.
Editors' Recommendations The tech that will actually make you a better PC gamer Why owning the best PC hardware didn’t make me a better gamer Nvidia’s AI-driven game characters are getting toxic This web browser integrates ChatGPT in a fascinating new way Senators to get AI lessons ahead of regulation decisions Tech News Computing Zoom has introduced its own AI-inundated offerings, which are intended to help you keep up to date with business information within the videoconferencing app.
The first feature of the new service, called Zoom IQ will assist you with summarizing Zoom meeting conversations that took place in your absence. You can access these summaries through the Zoom Team Chat or email without having to initiate any kind of recording. Hosts of the meeting also receive an overall summary for sharing with the group, or for record keeping.
Computing Right now, there’s plenty of hand-wringing over the damage artificial intelligence (AI) can do. To offset that, Firefox maker Mozilla set out to encourage more accountable use of AI with its Responsible AI Challenge, and the recently announced winners of the contest show that the AI-infused future doesn’t have to be all doom and gloom.
The first prize of $50,000 went to Sanative AI, which “provides anti-AI watermarks to protect images and artwork from being used as training data” for the kind of large-language models that power AI tools like ChatGPT. There has been much consternation from photographers and artists over their work being used to train AI without permission, something Sanative AI could help to remedy.
Computing Steve Wozniak has been sharing his thoughts about the new wave of AI-powered tools that have gained so much attention in recent months.
Speaking to the BBC this week, the Apple co-founder said he fears that the technology will be increasingly used by cybercriminals to make online scams more convincing and therefore harder to spot.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
