Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News You can now ‘expand’ images in Photoshop using AI By Fionna Agomuoh Close Adobe is updating its Photoshop app with a new AI-powered feature that will allow you to easily make an image larger and add context to the image based on its original subject.
The feature, called Generative Expand, is now available to Photoshop beta users. You’ll be able to expand images in any direction and generate an additional scene for the space with a combination of traditional app tools and AI. It uses Photoshop’s crop tool in conjunction with a text field for a prompt to create the details for the image you want to add.
Adobe Say you have an image of a mountain range that you want to expand without ruining the quality by expanding the resolution. You can expand the background with the crop tool, then type in the prompt mountain range and Photoshop will generate a mountain range that will fill in the rest of the background. Once the image is generated, you can select from three styles for a bit of variation. The image quality is comparable to that of Midjourney.
 The results are photorealistic, with the possibility of some mistakes and artifacts, TechRadar noted.
The feature is essentially the opposite of the app’s Generative Fill tool , which is already available in Photoshop. Generative Fill uses the Marquee or Lasso tools to fix errors found on images.
The ‘AI PC’ is coming for you, whether you like it or not OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch Can you use the Surface Pen with the Surface Laptop Studio 2? Since Generative Expand is a beta feature, you must have Photoshop (Beta) to get access.
 You can do so by downloading the Creative Cloud app and clicking Beta apps , located on the left.
Adobe’s AI implementation is a bit lagging on Photoshop, considering many companies have been announcing and implementing AI in their own programs for months. The brand already had its own AI-centered program, called Firefly , which is a direct competitor of tools such as Midjourney and Dall-E. However, it is likely Photoshop can also benefit from AI updates.
With its Generative Expand and Generate Fill features, Adobe has been careful to not fall into the same copyright infringement trap that other companies have experienced. It has trained the features using Adobe Stock images, which are openly licensed, in addition to other public domain content.
Adobe’s approach to AI training has caught the attention of Google and the companies now collaborate, with Google set to use Firefly’s image generation as part of its Bard chatbot.
Editors' Recommendations This magic Photoshop feature has changed how I edit photos forever New ‘poisoning’ tool spells trouble for AI text-to-image tech In the year of AI, is background blur really the best we can do? You can finally use Adobe’s game-changing AI features in Photoshop, Premiere, and After Effects GPT-4: how to use the AI chatbot that puts ChatGPT to shame Tech News Computing The Opera GX gaming browser -- which is among the best browsers around -- has been updated with the brand's proprietary AI writing assistant called Aria. It allows you to execute tasks such as asking questions, writing code, sprucing up communication, and learning how to navigate the ever-changing web landscape.
The tool is currently available to Opera GX Early Bird users. Gamers can use Aria to learn more about the latest gaming news and to easily find gaming tips with AI prompts. According to the press release, these could be based around news, such as "Has Starfield finally launched yet?," as well as tips, such as "How to beat the Juggernaut in Armored Core 6?" Computing Amazon is rolling out the use of generative-AI technology to summarize customer product reviews on its shopping site.
It follows several months of testing the feature, which is designed to help speed up the shopping experience for those who don’t want to spend a long time trawling through endless reviews.
Computing Like everyone else, Zoom has added AI features to improve its app and videoconferencing service. We all love the ease and speed AI provides, but there are often concerns about the data used to train models, and Zoom has been at the center of the controversy. It's backpedaling now, saying it won't use user content to train its AI models.
News leaked in May 2022 that Zoom was working on emotion-sensing AI that could analyze faces in meetings. Beyond the potential for inaccurate analysis, the results could be discriminatory.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
