Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best OLED monitors you can buy in 2023 By Fionna Agomuoh and Kunal Khullar Close OLED displays on PC monitors are gaining popularity due to their outstanding contrast ratios, pixel-precise dimming, and minimal input lag, which is particularly appealing to gamers. Although LED-driven LCD monitors remain prevalent, OLED technology is leaving its mark, with numerous brands launching new OLED-based products throughout 2023. Notably, some OLED TVs are doubling as monitor alternatives, and they come equipped with compatible software features like AMD FreeSync Premium and Nvidia G-Sync.
Here is a look at some of the best OLED monitors that you can buy today.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More Digital Trends Alienware 34 QD-OLED The best OLED gaming monitor QD-OLED contrast is unbeatable Fantastic HDR performance Excellent color saturation Attractive, minimalist design SDR brightness is a bit low Color accuracy isn't perfect The Dell Alienware 34-inch QD-OLED monitor is considered to be one of the best ultrawide gaming monitors on the market. The AW3423DW was released in March to rave reviews and sold out almost immediately even at its relatively steep $1,400 price tag.
It uses the latest QD-OLED technology that combines OLEDs with quantum dots for a richer, more vibrant image with fantastic colors and the same top-notch contrast ratio we know and love from more traditional OLED designs. It also benefits from a curved design and has a fast response time, a high refresh rate, supports Nvidia G-Sync Ultimate, and has a strong array of ports. It also gets extremely bright for an OLED monitor, hitting a peak brightness of over 1,000 nits.
Ports on the back include two HDMI 2.0, a DisplayPort 1.4, two USB 3.2 Gen 1 downstream with Battery Charging 1.2 support, two USB 3.2 Gen 1 downstream, a USB 3.2 Gen 1 upstream, an audio line-out, and a headphone jack.
This monitor is the complete package and features the best of cutting-edge display technology. If you can afford its high price, you won't be disappointed.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends / Digital Trends LG UltraGear OLED 27 27GR95QE-B Best 27-inch OLED monitor Vibrant colors and HDR Excellent motion clarity Fantastic matte finish Generous port selection Sturdy stand with plenty of adjustments Low SDR brightness Some text clarity issues Remote is necessary to control the display LG stepped-up its game with the UltraGear OLED 27 this year which is not only the first 27-inch OLED monitor, but also the first one to offer a 240Hz refresh rate. It comes with DisplayPort 1.4 and HDMI 2.1 which means you can make full use of the high refresh rate without any issues. There's native FreeSync variable refresh rate (VRR) support and G-SYNC compatibility for a tear-free gaming experience.
Notably, the UltraGear OLED 27 has a matte screen coating that helps in reducing reflections unlike most OLED displays which have a glossy finish. According to LG the monitor can reach peak brightness of 1,000 nits, but that is limited for only 3% of the screen. In our testing we measured a max brightness of 600 nits with HDR enabled, and in SDR, it was just over 250 nits.
The monitor offers excellent vibrance with an impressive contrast ratio of over 250,000:1, and infinite contrast ratio in HDR. Colors look stunning making even ordinary websites appear remarkably vibrant. In terms of color coverage you get 100% sRGB color space, as well as 97% of DCI-P3. Best of all, color accuracy is pretty much on the spot right out of the box, so you don't really need a lot of calibration. Having a price of almost $1,000, it isn't really affordable, especially for a display at this size. But if you are looking for the best OLED monitor that isn't large, then this is your best bet.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Samsung Odyssey OLED G8 G85SB Exceptional OLED with built-in smart features Exceptional color and HDR Ultrathin USB-C power delivery Dense settings in the OS More expensive than the competition Limited to mini connections Samsung’s new Odyssey G8 OLED is a pretty strong competitor for the Alienware 34 QD-OLED. It features a very similar 34-inch WQHD (3440 x 1440) QD-OLED panel offering a 175Hz refresh rate, and an 1800R curve. The primary difference is that the Samsung monitor does not come with native Nvidia G-Sync whereas the Alienware does.
Like most OLED monitors it looks stunning for any form of media, with perfect black levels. It offers 100% sRGB, 99% coverage of DCI-P3 and 94% coverage of AdobeRGB. In our testing we noticed that at full brightness, the monitor was also very accurate in SDR, offering a color error of only 0.8 (anything under 2 is considered suitable for color work).
The Odyssey G8 also comes with additional smart features. There is Samsung’s Tizen OS built into the monitor, similar to the Samsung Smart Monitor M8. This gives you access to apps like Netflix and YouTube, Samsung’s Game Hub, and more. You also get a remote control, giving you easier access to settings and functionality.
More Jacob Roach / Digital Trends LG UltraGear 48-inch OLED Best large-format OLED monitor Fantastic OLED quality Useful desktop remote FreeSync and G-Sync support Bright, vibrant bias lighting Doesn't support dynamic HDR metadata Pixel density can be a problem The LG UltraGear 48GQ900 monitor was LG's first OLED monitor, but it was able to build on the pedigree of its excellent OLED TVs to create a truly stellar and very large OLED gaming monitor. The LG UltraGear 48GQ900 features a 47.5-inch panel with a 4K 3840 x 2160 resolution and a 120Hz minimum refresh rate, which can be overclocked to 138Hz for PC gaming.
Other specifications on the 48-inch LG UltraGear include a 10-bit panel, HDR support, anti-glare coating, 1ms gray-to-gray response time, a DCI-P3 color gamut with 98.5% coverage, built-in speakers, and a purple design in the rear that helps it stand out from a sea of grays and blacks. It also features two additional HDMI ports, a DisplayPort, and a headphone jack, as well as AMD FreeSync Premium and Nvidia G-Sync compatibility.
Since its initial launch in the U.K., the LG UltraGear 48GQ900 made its way to the U.S. in the form of a 48GQ900-B model, which has similar specs but a slightly different design. The monitor is available at at all the usual outlets; just make sure you're getting the right model.
image: Corsair/videocardz.com / Corsair Corsair Xeneon Flex 45WQHD240 Unique bendable OLED gaming monitor Bendable panel 240Hz refresh rate and VRR Deep blacks Lower pixel density Increased input lag at low refresh rates Corsair is a well-known name in the computing industry. It expanded its product range by launching monitors in 2023, and its flagship offering is the Xeneon Flex 45WQHD240. It is a one-of-a-kind OLED gaming monitor that comes with a bendable display.
Essentially, you can use it as a regular flat panel or use the two handles on the side to covert it into a curved monitor with an 800R curve. The 45-inch display comes with a 21:9 aspect ratio and a resolution of 3440 x 1440, which isn't the highest, so you can expect slightly lower pixel density compared to other OLED 4K monitors.
It uses an LG OLED panel with a high 240Hz refresh rate with low input lag, although it tends to increase at lower refresh rates. The panel supports FreeSync VRR and G-SYNC compatibility, and it also has HDMI 2.1. You get punchy colors and a deep black with almost no blooming effect around bright objects. You also get a KVM switch and Picture-in-Picture/Picture-by-Picture modes, as well as a wide array of I/O ports.
It's expensive, so if you don't like the bending gimmick, LG's UltraGear OLED 45 is a great alternative.
More Dan Baker/Digital Trends / Digital Trends LG C2 OLED Best OLED smart TV Slick new design Improved peak brightness Excellent black levels Solid color accuracy and gamut Great for gamers Some peak brightness artifacts Complex smart TV system The LG C2 OLED TV is LG's most popular gaming TV and unsurprisingly draws comparisons with its LG UltraGear 48GQ900. However, this TV cum gaming monitor is also available in 65-inch, 77-inch, and 85-inch sizes, if you can find some way to actually sit in front of such monster displays.
The TV features no front-facing bezels and has a peak white brightness of 820 nits in HDR, while its peak brightness in SDR is 314 nits, and its color gamut coverage is 99% of DCI-P3 colorspace. That's some seriously vibrant color and very white whites, which, combined with the classic OLED inky blacks, make this TV seriously beautiful to look at, especially in high-contrast scenes.
The LG C2 TV includes an LG Alpha 9 picture processor and runs an LG webOS, which powers a number of smart assistants, such as Alexa, Google Assistant, and LG's own voice AI. Users can also navigate the TV with LG’s Magic Motion remote.
Input on the LG C2 TV includes four full-bandwidth HDMI 2.1 ports, giving you plenty of space for gaming PCs and consoles alike. It is also well-equipped for gaming with Nvidia G-Sync and AMD’s FreeSync premium variable refresh rate.
More Corsair Corsair Xeneon 27QHD240 Value for money OLED for gamers Excellent response time 240Hz refresh rate with VRR KVM switch Deep black levels Text clarity issues Increased input lag at lower refresh rates Apart from it's bendable ultra-wide OLED, Corsair also has a 27-inch OLED monitor. The Xeneon 27QHD240 is a brilliant 27-inch OLED monitors that is suitable for gamers as well as anyone who cares about productivity. Corsair is using the same panel as the LG 27GR95QE-B and ASUS ROG Swift OLED PG27AQDM, which offers excellent contrast, vivid colors and fast response times.
Additionally it has all the premium features that one expects from a high-end gaming monitor. It comes with 450 nits brightness and can deliver up to 1000 nits in HDR, support for VRR, along with a 240Hz refresh rate and super fast response rate of 0.03ms (GTG). There's also burn-in protection, and Corsair guarantees that customers will not face any dead pixel issues.
Best of all, it has a wide range of ports including a built in KVM switch. You get two HDMI 2.1 ports, a DisplayPort 1.4, a USB Type-C port with DisplayPort Alt mode, another USB Type-C port USB upstream, four USB Type-A ports (support for KVM), and a 3.5mm audio jack. Priced at $899, the Corsair Xeneon 27QHD240 offers better value as it is $100 cheaper than the LG 27GR95QE-B and the ASUS ROG Swift OLED PG27AQDM.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Gigabyte AORUS FO48U OLED monitor and TV combined Stunning picture with deep contrast Great viewing angles Built-in speakers are loud HDMI 2.1 with VRR 1ms GtG response time Low HDR brightness No Dolby Vision The Gigabyte AORUS FO48U is a 48-inch gaming monitor with the same OLED panel as the LG C1 TV, which is the predecessor to the LG C2. The 47.53-inch panel features a 4K UHD (3840 x 2160) resolution, a 120Hz refresh rate, a 16:9 aspect ratio, a 135,000:1 contrast ratio, and a 1ms response time. That's almost every box ticked right out of the gate.
The monitor also supports HDR, 98% of the DPI-P3 color gamut, and true 10-bit color depth, and it has a peak brightness of over 800 nits, making it a simply gorgeous monitor every which way you look at it. For gaming, it supports FreeSync Premium compatibility, as well as Nvidia G-Sync unofficially, so no matter what GPU you have, you needn't worry about screen tearing.
Input for the Gigabyte AORUS FO48U includes two HDMI 2.1 ports, one DisplayPort 1.4, one USB-C, one audio jack, and two USB 3.0. It also features 300mm by 300mm VESA wall-mounting support.
Frequently Asked Questions OLED is short for Organic Light-Emitting Diode which is a type of display technology used in screens commonly seen on TVs, monitors, smartphones, and other devices. OLED screens are made up of individual organic compounds that emit light when an electric current is applied to them. Unlike traditional LCD screens that require a backlight, OLED screens emit their own light on a pixel-by-pixel basis. This allows for deeper blacks, higher contrast ratios, and more vibrant colors, as each pixel can be turned on or off independently. OLED technology also often results in thinner and more flexible displays compared to traditional LCDs.
OLED displays tend to be more expensive compared to traditional LCD displays. This is primarily because the manufacturing process for OLED panels is more intricate and can be costlier. The organic materials used in OLED screens can be sensitive to moisture and oxygen, requiring specialized manufacturing facilities and techniques.
OLED monitors have a potential issue: burn-in. All OLED displays can suffer from burn-in, where static images will slowly fade into the screen over time, becoming a permanent blemish. OLED monitors are particularly prone to this problem due to desktop use, where you often have several parts of the screen occupied by static images. Thankfully, most OLED monitors come with burn-in prevention features like pixel shifting, and some displays such as the Alienware 34 QD-OLED, include multi-year warranties with burn-in protection.
Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now The best gaming PC Black Friday deals you can shop right now Best 4K monitor Black Friday deals from Samsung, Dell, LG, and more The best 5K monitor Black Friday deals from Apple, LG, and more Best Products Computing Best Buy is having one of the biggest early Black Friday sales events, so if you want to pick up a new gaming laptop, it's a great option, especially since it has such a wide selection from both AMD and Intel. It's also worth checking out the My Best Buy Plus or Total membership; one or two of the deals below have extra discounts if you have it. For the most part though, we've done our best to shy away from any deals that require My Best Buy or anything of that sort.
Be sure to check out our lists of the best Black Friday laptop deals and Black Friday gaming laptop deals for a more generalized list of discounts.
Best Buy Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Computing If the size of your laptop is the most important factor, a 17-inch screen is the way to go. Laptops this big are great for video editors, gamers, and people who stream a lot of content on their laptops. While the primary focus here is the screen size, there are some other benefits to larger laptops. For one, manufacturers can fit better components and fancier features into a large laptop. You'll see things on the list below like RGB keyboards and touchscreens. We've picked out options from across the Black Friday deals available today, including our favorite deal: $600 off the Dell XPS 17.
Best 17-inch laptop Black Friday deal The Dell XPS is one of our favorite laptop lines. They come in 13, 15 and 17 inches, and the XPS 17 is the cream of the crop. This particular model is on sale for $1,799, down $600 from its usual $2,399. Let's take a look under the hood.
Computing VPNs are great for privacy, but they have a lot of other added benefits. For example, you can use them to get around geo-locked content, especially if you're traveling, or you can use them to encrypt your connection so that snooping noses have less of a chance to see what you're doing. Luckily, with the big sales going on in November, there are a lot of great early Black Friday deals on VPNs you can take advantage of. We've collected our favorite one below, as well as some alternatives, so be sure to click through and check the ones that sound interesting.
Best VPN Black Friday Deal NordVPN is probably one of the best-known VPNs out there and is even on our list of best VPNs out there. So, if you're looking to pick up a VPN, NordVPN is having a great Black Friday sale you can take advantage of and save yourself a considerable amount of money. The best deal it has is the 27-month Plus plan going for $108 instead of $286, which comes out to be $4 a month, and the best part is that it comes with many added benefits besides the VPN. As part of the Plus plan, you also get yourself malware protection, tracker and ad blockers, a password manager, and a data breach detector, which is a great deal for just $4 a month.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
