Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Why Meta’s new ChatGPT rival is such a big deal By Fionna Agomuoh Close ChatGPT has enjoyed a huge advantage over its competitors, even companies as large as Google. But Meta has recently announced the latest iteration of its AI model, Llama 2 (Large Language Model Meta), along with the open availability of the model for free to developers for research and commercial purposes.
It’s open source It might be as powerful as ChatGPT Other competition For the first time this year, we may be witnessing the most significant challenge so far to OpenAI’s grip on the world of generative AI.
It’s open source Meta OpenAI was originally founded as an open-source organization, a point that Elon Musk has made. It’s since then taken a very different path, however, choosing to keep much of the company’s technology behind closed doors.
ChatGPT’s new upgrade finally breaks the text barrier Zoom adds ChatGPT to help you catch up on missed calls In the age of ChatGPT, Macs are under malware assault That’s where Llama 2 comes in to potentially have an even wider impact on how AI is distributed. With all the concerns around ethics, privacy, and copyrighted materials used by ChatGPT, some see an open-source version of this technology as a necessary solution to keep AI within our control.
“Our open-source approach promotes transparency and access,” says Meta in its blog post. “We know that while AI has brought huge advances to society, it also comes with risk. We are committed to building responsibly and are providing a number of resources to help those who use Llama 2 do so too.” These resources include a responsible use guide, a transparency schematic, and more.
Unlike ChatGPT, though, that doesn’t mean just anyone can go in and play with it. While Llama 2 is open source, companies with over 700 million monthly active users require special permission from Meta to use it. Meanwhile, the AI model does not have a consumer-friendly interface, as it is aimed toward more technical and corporate use cases. Meta says Llama 2 is for those in “tech, academia, and policy who also believe in an open innovation approach to today’s AI technologies.” It might be as powerful as ChatGPT Llama 2 appears to have promise as a true ChatGPT competitor. It has also been lauded as having the same power capabilities as ChatGPT.
“It is a huge leap forward for open source, and a huge blow to the closed-source providers, as using this model will offer way more customizability and way lower cost for most companies,” Nathan Lambert, research scientist for AI company Hugging Face, recently wrote in a Substack post that was first publicized in a Business Insider report.
Meta makes some pretty significant impressive claims about just how powerful Llama 2 is. Most notably, Meta says it was trained on more 40% more data than Llama 1.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Meta and its partner, Microsoft, have stated that their collaboration allows developers to use Microsoft Azure to build within Llama 2, allowing not only access to cloud-native tools, but also for developers to optimally run the program locally on Windows. Llama 2 is also available on a number of providers, including Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Hugging Face, which establish its credibility among developers. Meanwhile, ChatGPT has had to have compatible alternatives made for different platforms by developers.
Examples include the MacGPT application created by developer Jordi Bruin that allows you to install ChatGPT as a remote browser on your Mac desktop. Even Microsoft’s Bing Chat is based on ChatGPT.
Meanwhile, the quality of OpenAI’s latest language model has recently been called into question as it is seemingly declining in its accuracy and power.
We’ll have to wait to hear more before we know for sure just how powerful Llama 2 is compared to ChatGPT, but for now, it at least seems promising.
Other competition There are other companies developing their own AI models, of course, but none have had the commercial advantage ChatGPT has enjoyed since its release.
Google’s Bard AI chatbot is still largely experimental, but is being updated regularly by the brand. Apple is expected to soon join the AI race with its own branded tool, however, details about the chatbot remain limited.
For now, Llama 2 seems to be the most important new AI model in the game, and its open-source nature make it an important counter to ChatGPT.
Editors' Recommendations This powerful ChatGPT feature is back from the dead — with a few key changes Meta is reportedly working on a GPT-4 rival, and it could have dire consequences ChatGPT may soon moderate illegal content on sites like Facebook Apple has been secretly working on a ChatGPT rival for years Apple’s ChatGPT rival is reportedly ‘significantly behind competitors’ Facebook Features Computing OpenAI, the creator of the wildly popular artificial intelligence (AI) chatbot ChatGPT, has shut down the tool it developed to detect content created by AI rather than humans. The tool, dubbed AI Classifier, has been shuttered just six months after it was launched due to its “low rate of accuracy,” OpenAI said.
Since ChatGPT and rival services have skyrocketed in popularity, there has been a concerted pushback from various groups concerned about the consequences of unchecked AI usage. For one thing, educators have been particularly troubled by the potential for students to use ChatGPT to write their essays and assignments, then pass them off as their own.
Computing Wix is an oft-recommended online service that lets you knock together a website without any coding knowledge.
Now the Israel-based company has announced a new AI Site Generator that aims to make the process even smoother and more intuitive, and less time-consuming, too.
Computing In the world of artificial intelligence (AI) chatbots, OpenAI’s ChatGPT is undoubtedly the best known. But Google Bard is hot on its heels, and the bot has just been granted a new ability: the power of speech.
The change was detailed in a Google blog post, which described the update as “Bard’s biggest expansion to date.” It grants Bard not just speech, but the ability to converse in over 40 languages, use images as prompts, and more.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
