Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features The case for XR at work isn’t going away just yet By Fionna Agomuoh Close There was a lot of hope in the mid-2010s that virtual reality would take off and become the next big thing in home entertainment. Many brands invested in VR headsets that would be connected to PCs and gaming consoles to take users seamlessly from a 2D environment to an immersive 3D world. While enthusiasts might have jumped on the bandwagon quickly, many consumers have yet to invest in the ever-prevalent technology, much to the chagrin of Meta (formerly Facebook) CEO Mark Zuckerberg and his burgeoning metaverse.
Lenovo’s vision of XR AI and XR unite A not-so-distant future The concept of VR hasn’t gone away and has gradually morphed into extended reality (XR) via further upgrades as we progress into the mid-2020s. Hardware has become smaller, lighter, and wireless. Companies including Meta and Apple market their XR headsets, the Meta Quest 3 and the Apple Vision Pro respectively, as entertainment devices with several enterprise capabilities built in. But other companies are taking a different approach.
Lenovo’s vision of XR Fionna Agomuoh / DigitalTrends After years of the industry attempting to make VR/XR an enjoyment-first medium, Lenovo has considered the enterprise space as the most direct avenue to give users their first experience with headsets. I spoke with Jason McGuigan, Lenovo’s head of commercial VR, during the brand’s Tech World 2023 conference about how its collaboration with businesses is allowing would-be consumers to try XR before they buy.
Nvidia’s peace offering isn’t working Don’t roll your eyes — AI isn’t just another doomed tech fad Nvidia isn’t just beating AMD in graphics, it’s still gaining ground. Here’s why Despite various headsets being available for approximately a decade, McGuigan estimated that between 50% to 60% of the market has not tried XR in any capacity. Companies such as Chick-fil-A, Walmart, or a call center might use VR to train their new employees, and that might be their first time in contact with a headset.
He noted that having those first XR experiences at work demystifies a lot of the questions that people might have about how the technology operates without any initial investment on their part. Many are expecting more of a flat panel in front of the face when putting on a headset, or a 3D television experience.
“The immersion surprises everybody. The connection that they have to the content surprises everyone. Then they become a fan of it. We have had many people that have told us that they started off by using their headset at work, and then they got one for personal use at home. We’re going to see a lot of that translation for the consumer market, but we’re going to see that growth as we’re seeing more and more content being developed. It becomes ultra-specific to everybody,” McGuigan said.
The faltering of immediate consumer interest has been a win for the enterprise space. Many organizations have been investing in XR as a time-saving and cost-saving mechanism. They can use headsets for several purposes, from employee training to remote collaboration in VR. Some organizations are developing even more use cases as newer generative AI technology becomes available.
AI and XR unite Meta Over the last decade, businesses have been able to rationalize the cost metrics of investing in XR a lot more than any individual consumer can. If a consumer-marketed XR headset is available, it is open to much more scrutiny over its size, design, comfort level, and whether or not the device is worth its price tag, even for enthusiasts. Meanwhile, employees don’t have much choice on if or how a headset is being used in the enterprise space. Aspects such as maximum comfort might be overlooked in favor of cost savings for a company because devices are likely not being used for an extended period in a work setting. These are things companies can easily calculate the benefits of in terms of time, money, and cost, McGuigan noted.
“With early technologies, the investment is heavy. The enterprise has more to invest because they have more to gain. If I’m an individual gamer and I buy a VR headset, I get the satisfaction out of my one use. Whatever I’m using it for, how often I use it, I have to build that metric. This is so much that I spent on it and this is what I’m getting out of it. Does that meet my entertainment quota for what I spent on it? I spent $500, when do I get my $500 back in return on investment for my personal satisfaction?” he said.
Similar to the hardware, XR requires compatible software and services that are currently much more lucrative in the enterprise space than for consumers. With the modern advent of generative AI, many companies, including Lenovo, are using the technology to create propelled solutions for many different industries.
It allows different companies to quickly develop proprietary solutions that require only a login for access. Projects that required six months to execute have been truncated to six weeks, allowing for time to consider additional use cases. This brings up challenges, such as what happens when the technology is updating while a company is rolling out a project. However, the collaboration of XR and generative AI in the enterprise space has the potential to point to growth for the industry, driving Lenovo’s business as a whole.
“ Anybody in the enterprise that is building their own content that has a high level of cost, and that same reduction in cost is going to [apply to] traditional game developers, traditional XR developers, and consumer developers ,” McGuigan said. “Someone that was creating a traditional video game last year without any of these tools, maybe they needed to hire external resources for voice talent. Maybe they had programming needs. Maybe they were a decent programmer, but a great artist; maybe they’re a great artist, but a terrible programmer. All those things can get unlocked by using generative AI, and now, they can create games, XR applications, all things that can then get translated out to the end user.” A not-so-distant future Tracey Truly / Digital Trends As generative AI becomes more ubiquitous in the enterprise space, benefits toward the consumer XR space are likely to become more apparent. A populous of content created by generative AI will likely usher in the compact XR devices that will be most appealing to consumers for at-home and entertainment purposes.
McGuigan notes the XR headsets have had a similar trajectory to the television and the portable phone, which started as large bulky devices with few functionalities. However, as they gained additional content and faster modes of producing said content, the smaller and more efficient they became.
“We’re not millennia away from it. We’re maybe 10 years before something becomes super light and easy, but when it becomes that easy, it’s going to be the best way to experience it. Because if we’re all sitting in our homes having this conversation, we put on a pair of glasses and it seems like you’re sitting right there. We’re going to do that rather than just picking up the phone because it’s going to be a lot more of an interactive, fun, and enjoyable experience,” McGuigan said.
Editors' Recommendations AMD isn’t just copying Nvidia’s homework with FSR 3 No, ChatGPT isn’t going to cause another GPU shortage Despite Alder Lake launch, Intel isn’t ditching DDR4 yet Intel CFO: “10nm isn’t going to be the best node that Intel has ever had” This $3,600 workstation isn’t just a desk. It’s a cockpit of productivity Features Lenovo Virtual Reality Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
