Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Gaming Guides The best Google Chrome games for 2022 By Gabe Gurwin Close When most people think about Google Chrome, the search engine itself or apps like Gmail and Google Docs are typically the first things to come to mind. Google Chrome’s extensive list of free in-browser games isn’t well-known.
Boxel Rebound Robbers in Town Happy Friday Spelunky HTML5 Free Rider HD Treasure Arena Google Chrome, in fact, has a vast array of apps and games from different genres that users can play on their mobile devices or laptop. With standouts like 2048 or Spelunky , among many others, you’re sure to find something you’ll enjoy.
Further reading The best browser games The best free online game sites The best indie games for 2022 2048 Android, iOS, Web browser Puzzle, Strategy, Indie Gabriele Cirulli Solebon LLC March 09, 2014 Read less Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best Call of Duty games, ranked The PS5 games with the best graphics Kingdom Rush Frontiers PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, Android, iOS, Nintendo Switch Real Time Strategy (RTS), Strategy, Indie Ironhide Game Studio Ironhide Game Studio June 06, 2013 Read less Little Alchemy Android, iOS, Web browser Puzzle Recloak December 08, 2010 Read less King of Thieves iOS Strategy ZeptoLab ZeptoLab February 12, 2015 Read less Entanglement Linux, PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, Web browser Puzzle, Indie Gopherwood Studios LLC Gopherwood Studios LLC October 17, 2010 Read less Cut the Rope PC (Microsoft Windows), Nintendo DS, Android, Nintendo 3DS, iOS, Windows Phone, Nintendo DSi Puzzle, Indie ZeptoLab Chillingo, ZeptoLab October 01, 2010 Read less Mahjong Solitaire PC (Microsoft Windows) Quiz/Trivia, Indie May 11, 2018 Read less Dark Orbit PC (Microsoft Windows) Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure WildTangent December 11, 2001 Read less SparkChess PC (Microsoft Windows) Strategy, Indie October 17, 2018 Read less Boxel Rebound Image used with permission by copyright holder Boxel Rebound is easily one of Chrome’s most impressive auto-runners, thanks to the latest updates that made the finals levels even more agonizing. It’s based in Chrome, but Boxel Rebound ‘s extensive content includes 50 levels, eight player skins, and even a level editor.
Players of this game can create and share their levels, warranting a comparison to Super Mario Maker Lite.
 You’ll bounce back and forth between fun and frustration due to the many options and a high difficulty level.
Play here Robbers in Town Auto-running platformers are the bread and butter of the free-to-play browser game scene, but these games can be turned into something more interesting with just one simple tweak.
In Robbers in Town , you play as two separate criminals trying to escape from a local bank with their stash of cash in tow. One directional arrow controls the first robber, while another controls the second, and they must both be used to avoid obstacles and get more cash.
Play here Happy Friday Happy Friday follows an orange monster creature as it escapes red monster creatures and eats donuts. It is a free, fast-paced game, but the controls are easy, so people of any age can play.
Though there isn’t much to this game in the way of strategy, you do have to avoid obstacles and figure out how to use the environment around you to get through levels and fight the red monsters. You can turn into a ball to go faster and get through tubes and pipes or stay standing up to be able to jump.
Play here Spelunky HTML5 Image used with permission by copyright holder The cult-favorite Spelunky HTML5 is like an 8-bit Indiana Jones adventure complete with bullwhips, snakes, and more. Essentially, you help a cave diver, Spelunky, search for gold and his lost girlfriend while avoiding booby traps and deadly animals. Controls are incredibly easy.
If you die in the game, you aren’t sent back to the beginning again. Instead, the game generates a new set of random levels so you don’t feel like you’re backtracking.
Play here Free Rider HD Free Rider HD is the best ragdoll-based racer in the Google Chrome store. With 80 unique levels, multiple vehicle types, and tons of achievements to unlock, the game provides plenty of challenges to overcome. However, the game’s best feature is its robust user community.
Free Rider HD also gives players the ability to create their own detailed 2D-racing levels. Players have crafted more than 50,000 custom levels at this point, which you can use to challenge your friends or the worldwide leaderboards. Considering you can play it directly in your Chrome browser, Free Rider HD has a surprising amount of content to offer.
Play here Treasure Arena With Treasure Arena , up to four friends can battle one another in a retro-style grudge match that mimics the old-school arcade games of yesteryear. Each level is littered with enemy monsters that you and your friends must eradicate together while simultaneously competing to gather the most coins. As you take down enemies, you can loot treasure chests to gain better weapons and gear, all of which give you a competitive edge over your friends. As far as Google Chrome games are concerned, this is one of the most fully realized — few compromises were made in developing Treasure Arena for the accessible platform.
Play here Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy The best Mario games of all time, ranked Netflix subscribers are getting one of the decade’s best games The best city-building games on PC The best PS5 games for 2023 Computing Google Google Chrome Gaming The Nintendo Switch has had a lot of success in the nearly six years since its release. The console-handheld hybrid has been on the market since 2017, and a slew of fantastic games from first- and third-party developers have launched over the course of the system's life cycle. Recently, heavy hitters such as Metroid Dread, Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, and Kirby and the Forgotten Land have boosted the system's appeal, while a healthy list of upcoming Switch games continues to drum up excitement.
There are plenty of incredible games to enjoy on the Switch right now. But which ones should you check out? These are the best Nintendo Switch games (including free-to-play titles) for 2023.
Action Computing While some of the best laptops are designed to cater to different types of users and purposes, you're going to need a gaming laptop if you want to play the best PC games. That's because these machines are designed to meet the strict requirements of gamers, which also makes them a bit more expensive. Fortunately, there's no shortage of gaming laptop deals online, and to help you make your choice, we've rounded up some of the top offers right here. Whether you're on a tight budget or you're aiming for a powerful machine, there's something here for everyone.
HP Victus 15 (Intel) -- $550, was $900 The HP Victus 15 is one of the cheapest gaming laptops in the market, but it still provides decent performance with the latest 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM. With these specifications, you can play today's most popular games, but you'll have to go with low to medium graphic settings for the more demanding titles. The gaming laptop is also equipped with a 15.6-inch Full HD screen with a 144Hz refresh rate, and a 512GB SSD with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded.
Gaming PlayStation Plus has gone through several iterations and changes since it was first introduced. Originally, the service wasn't required for online play at all and rewarded subscribers with extra discounts and free monthly games. Once the PlayStation 4 generation began, it was required for online play, but still offered those same benefits.
Now, PS Plus is divided into three different tiers of subscriptions. The basic tier, PS Plus Essential, still gets three games per month added, while the Extra and Premium tiers will have a varying number of games added to their catalogs. With hundreds of games already and more coming and going all the time, even the most dedicated gamer won't be able to play everything on offer. To help you get the most bang for your buck, and so that no hidden gems fly under your radar, here are all the best games to play on PS Plus Essential, Extra, and Premium right now.
Best PS Plus Essential games As is usually the case, everyone with the lowest tier of PS Plus gets three games this month, two with PlayStation 5 versions and one with a PS4 version. Here's what you can play this month: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
