Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Guides The best Metroidvania games on Nintendo Switch By Gabe Gurwin Close The Nintendo Switch is the perfect console for playing a particular type of game called Metroidvania. A genre heavily influenced by the Metroid series and Castlevania games from Symphony of the Night onward, Metroidvania games combine platforming, exploration, role-playing, customization mechanics, and combat into a sprawling adventure.
Hollow Knight Metroid Dread Super Daryl Deluxe Bloodstained: Ritual of the Night Dead Cells SteamWorld Dig 2 Guacamelee! 2 Axiom Verge 2 Owlboy The Messenger Super Metroid There are no set rules for the genre, but in general, a Metroidvania game will involve fighting enemies, finding ways to progress past locked doors or unreachable areas, and learning new abilities. The 2D side-scrolling style makes these games perfect for the Switch, and we’ve rounded up some of the best ones to play on the console. These are the best Metroidvania games on Switch.
See More The best Metroidvania games The best indie games on Nintendo Switch The best Nintendo Switch games for 2020 Hollow Knight Image used with permission by copyright holder One of the most atmospheric and engrossing games available on Nintendo Switch, Hollow Knight understands what makes a Metroidvania game work. The world is filled with passages and detours that contain secrets, enemies, and upgrades, and the combat is simple enough to not overwhelm you but with enough special moves to make it interesting.
Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best Mario games of all time, ranked The best Switch controllers for 2023 In a world filled with bugs, many of whom want you dead, you must always remain on your toes. Friendships can be forged in unexpected places, and there always seems to be one path you haven’t taken yet.
Hollow Knight ’s use of a Souls-like currency-dropping system makes every dangerous moment that much tenser, as well. Keep an eye out for the upcoming sequel, Hollow Knight: Silksong.
Metroid Dread Image used with permission by copyright holder The newest entry in the series that started it all, Metroid Dread finally brings the series onto the Nintendo Switch with the conclusion to the core series started way back on the NES. We’re back in the boots of bounty hunter Samus Aran as she faces a brand new threat that hunts her throughout this new adventure. Some staples of the Metroid series return, including familiar upgrades to search out, but this newest game does plenty to spice up the formula.
Combat is much tighter, faster, and cinematic than ever before. Exploration is quick thanks to smooth movement and satisfying platforming, and bosses are a sight to behold in Samus’ best-looking game yet. Whether you play in handheld or on the big screen, Metroid Dread may not completely reinvent the genre it established but certainly proves it is still one of the best. Take a look at our Metroid Dread tips if you’re just getting started.
Super Daryl Deluxe Image used with permission by copyright holder Fantasy worlds? Who needs them when you have a prototypical American high school? Super Daryl Deluxe stars a silent protagonist who is basically willing to do whatever menial tasks other students tell him to, and that typically involves heading into a classroom and entering a level inspired by its subjects.
You meet classic historical figures such as Genghis Khan and Georgia O’Keefe, usually while battling monsters that stop you from making it further into the school. The real charm in Super Daryl Deluxe , however, comes from its excellent writing, which has just the right mix of sarcasm and historical references. It’s wrapped up in a gorgeous hand-drawn style package that also features some killer tunes.
Bloodstained: Ritual of the Night Image used with permission by copyright holder The term “Metroidvania” initially came about after Castlevania: Symphony of the Night took the series from mostly linear action into an open-ended environment, and director Koji Igarashi ran with the concept for subsequent games. With Konami showing little interest in making a new Castlevania title using this style, Igarashi took it upon himself to design a spiritual successor: Bloodstained: Ritual of the Night.
Featuring a similarly spooky setting and horror-inspired enemies, it feels like the modern Symphony of the Night we never got, and its deep customization system gives you plenty of choice for how you confront its many enemies.
Dead Cells Image used with permission by copyright holder Dead Cells is different than many Metroidvania games in that it is also inspired by the roguelike genre – it features permanent death, so you won’t be able to simply retry any areas you struggled with immediately. Instead, you must improve with each subsequent “run” through its world, mastering the patterns of different enemies and bosses and picking the upgrades you need to do so.
Though Dead Cells uses pixel art often associated with the 16-bit era, the fluidity of animations and depth of colors are something we would not have seen back in the ‘90s, giving the game a unique flavor all its own.
SteamWorld Dig 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image & Form has quietly become one of the most talented and acclaimed developers in Europe, and SteamWorld Dig 2 stands as one of its finest creations. Set largely underground as you attempt to discover the cause of earthquakes, the sprawling world is classic Metroidvania, as are the different varieties of enemies you’ll face and the gear upgrades you can acquire.
One thing that separates it from the pack, however, is a hook-shot mechanic that you can use to make your way across certain areas as if you were Link in Ocarina of Time.
 The cartoony art style and mix of environments help to keep things feeling light and fresh, even if you have hot lava below your feet.
Guacamelee! 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder The original Guacamelee was a love letter to the Metroidvania genre, but it built on it substantially by featuring a deep and combo-focused combat system with its luchador protagonist, Juan.
The sequel doesn’t fix what wasn’t broken, with the same flashy attacks intact, but it includes a new upgrade system and even sharper visuals inspired by Mexican folklore.
The game also features drop-in four-player cooperative play, so your friends and family can get in on the fun whenever they want, and there are plenty of new bosses for you to beat to a pulp. DrinkBox Studios has a knack for making every punch feel excellent, so you’ll enjoy fighting even the most mundane enemies.
Axiom Verge 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder The original Axiom Verge was not at all subtle about hiding its Metroid inspirations. Everything, including the art style, exploration, and even environments, felt like they could’ve been taken out of an unreleased Metroid title. The sequel builds on all the things the original established and ups the ante in this delightfully haunting experience.
Axiom Verge 2 is a cerebral and deep game that builds on its Metroid-inspired gameplay with its own twisted story, new abilities, and cleverly designed map. It shows that you can create something special even while drawing heavily from past works. Though available on practically everything, Axiom Verge 2 certainly feels at home on Nintendo Switch.
Owlboy Image used with permission by copyright holder Why simply run when you can fly? In Owlboy , you can take to the skies to conquer obstacles and carry nearly anything to assist you in your objectives, and a special spin attack can be used to defeat enemies or send projectiles flying back at them. Flying adds a new twist on solving puzzles, and the sky-based world you explore has a sense of whimsy and charm that is perfect for a Nintendo system.
Developer D-Pad Studio has also put more emphasis on storytelling than we typically see from the genre, as the decade-in-the-making project focuses on protagonist Otus’ struggles with being mute, as well as a new enemy he encounters.
The Messenger Image used with permission by copyright holder The Messenger , like several games on our list, pays tribute to a classic action-platformer – Ninja Gaiden – but the original games on NES weren’t really Metroidvania titles. This itself is addressed in the gameplay, which begins as an 8-bit linear action game before eventually shifting to a 16-bit art style.
When this occurs, the game opens up and transforms into a Metroidvania, effectively delivering a game with an entirely new adventure. There are plenty of hidden levels to find and upgrades to give to your character, all bundled up in an experience that highlights well-defined controls more than the games that inspired it.
Super Metroid Image used with permission by copyright holder Possibly the greatest game in the whole genre, Super Metroid wasn’t available on the Nintendo Switch at its initial release. In fact, it wasn’t until the end of 2019 that the Nintendo Switch Online service began providing it to customers as a free bonus, and the Super NES classic still remains a legendary accomplishment. The eerie ambiance Nintendo created with such restricted hardware surpasses most recent Metroidvania games, and the detailed structure and design of the world are packed with innovative gadgets and abilities for Samus.
Super Metroid may not technically be a Nintendo Switch game as it’s just an emulator for the SNES. However, it’s proof of the game’s quality, making us want to return to it, even with countless other options available on the system.
Super Metroid demonstrated that exceptional science-fiction was achievable in games just as much as film and is the unquestioned gold standard for the entire genre.
Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy Hollow Knight: Silksong: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more The best Call of Duty games, ranked One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month Indie World Showcase November 2023: How to watch and what to expect Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming Netflix announced a slew of new games coming its mobile gaming platform. The list is headlined by Supergiant Games' 2020 hit Hades, which will be available on mobile devices for any Netflix subscriber when it launches.
Netflix Games launched in 2021 and continues to expand its offering of titles. The company upped its commitment to gaming during today's Geeked Week stream, which revealed several games coming to the platform. Hades is the crown jewel, but several other notable games are coming to the platform soon.
Gaming While the jumps have been getting smaller and smaller between generations, there's always a nice graphical bump to look forward to when picking up the latest hardware. We're long past the days of going from 16-bit 2D games to full-on 3D, and even the jump from SD to HD, but the visual improvements we got between the PS4 and PS5 are still striking. Not only are resolutions higher, but new techniques like ray tracing are now possible and starting to show up in more titles as we get deeper into the console's life.
Now that it's been out for a decent amount of time, and we have a wide selection of both upgraded titles and ones made exclusively for the PS5, there are a few that have risen to the top that anyone looking to show off the power of their new console will want to grab. Not only are all the games on this list visually impressive -- not just necessarily photorealistic, mind you -- but they're also a blast to play. Graphics don't make a game fun, but it just works out that the best-looking games on PS5 are also some of the best-playing. Here are our picks for the PS5 games with the best graphics.
Gaming Blink while playing one of the best city-building games, and you'll lose countless hours expanding your city, refining your infrastructure, and focusing your trade. Ever since the original Sim City, we've been losing sleep designing the perfect utopias for our digital citizens, and as time has gone on, they've only gotten more satisfying to build.
Although city-building games usually carry a steep learning curve and tons of content, beginners can dive into any option on our list and have a good time. The genre has expanded to include tons of big hitters, with exciting sequels like Cities Skylines 2 on the horizon. We have a mix of hardcore survival experiences like Frostpunk and minimalist builders like Islanders, so there's something for everyone.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
