Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Meta Quest 2 games By Gabe Gurwin and Jesse Lennox Close The Meta Quest is what prospective virtual reality fans likely envisioned when the technology was in its infancy — an all-in-one device that can be used on its own nearly anywhere, complete with hand-tracking and touch controllers. Though it lacks the raw power of its rivals, the Meta Rift and HTC’s Vive headsets, the Quest more than makes up for it with its convenience. It’s also capable of playing some of the best VR games on the market. Here are some of the best VR experiences the Meta Quest currently has to offer.
Rhythm and fitness Action Adventure and puzzle Rhythm and fitness Beat Saber Windows Mixed Reality, SteamVR, PlayStation VR, Meta Quest, Meta Rift, Meta Quest 2 Music, Sport, Indie Hyperbolic Magnetism Hyperbolic Magnetism May 21, 2019 Read less BOXVR PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation VR Sport, Indie FitXR FitXR April 30, 2019 Read less Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best Call of Duty games, ranked Baldur’s Gate 3 and Alan Wake 2 lead this year’s Game Awards nominations Creed: Rise to Glory SteamVR, PlayStation VR, Meta Quest, Meta Rift, Meta Quest 2 Fighting, Simulator, Sport, Indie Survios Survios September 25, 2018 Read less Dance Central VR Meta VR Harmonix Music Systems April 30, 2019 Read less Action Among Us VR Meta VR, SteamVR, PlayStation VR, Meta Quest, Meta Quest 2 Strategy, Indie Innersloth November 10, 2022 Read less Half-Life: Alyx PC (Microsoft Windows), Windows Mixed Reality, SteamVR, Meta Rift Shooter, Puzzle, Adventure Valve Corporation Valve Corporation March 23, 2020 Read less Drop Dead: Dual Strike Edition PC (Microsoft Windows), Meta VR, Meta Quest, Meta Quest 2 Shooter Pixel Toys Pixel Toys December 31, 2016 Read less Resident Evil 4 VR Meta VR, Meta Quest 2 Shooter Armature Studio Capcom Co., LTD.
October 21, 2021 Read less SUPERHOT VR Windows Mixed Reality, SteamVR, PlayStation VR, Meta Quest, Meta Rift, Meta Quest 2 Shooter, Puzzle, Indie SUPERHOT Team SUPERHOT Team December 06, 2016 Read less Robo Recall: Unplugged Meta Quest, Meta Quest 2 May 21, 2019 Read less Population: One Meta VR, SteamVR, Meta Quest, Meta Quest 2 Shooter, Arcade BigBox VR October 22, 2020 Read less Swords Of Gargantua Meta VR, SteamVR, Meta Quest, Meta Quest 2 Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Thirdverse Thirdverse June 06, 2019 Read less Apex Construct PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Meta VR, SteamVR, PlayStation VR, Meta Quest, Meta Quest 2 Shooter, Adventure Fast Travel Games Fast Travel Games February 20, 2018 Read less Vader Immortal: Episode I PlayStation VR, Meta Quest, Meta Rift, Meta Quest 2 Adventure ILMxLAB Disney Interactive, Disney Electronic Content, Inc.
May 21, 2019 Read less Arizona Sunshine PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, SteamVR, PlayStation VR, Meta Quest, Meta Rift, Meta Quest 2 Shooter, Adventure, Indie Vertigo Games, Jaywalkers Interactive Vertigo Games December 06, 2016 Read less Pistol Whip PC (Microsoft Windows), Meta VR, SteamVR, PlayStation VR, Meta Quest, Meta Rift, Meta Quest 2 Shooter, Music, Indie, Arcade Cloudhead Games Cloudhead Games November 07, 2019 Read less Adventure and puzzle Moss Windows Mixed Reality, SteamVR, PlayStation VR, Meta Quest, Meta Rift Platform, Puzzle, Adventure Polyarc Games Polyarc Games February 27, 2018 Moss is an excellent game that makes the most of virtual reality’s glorious possibilities. It provides a unique mix of standard third-person action combined with the added capability of manipulating the game world. You play as the story’s “god,” and you help the protagonist, a mouse named Quill, do puzzles, beat bosses, and more. The story is both saga and fairytale, appealing to adult gamers and their inner children. The sequel just released as well if you’re interested in continuing the adventure.
Read less I Expect You To Die SteamVR, PlayStation VR, Meta Quest, Meta Rift Puzzle, Simulator, Adventure, Indie Schell Games Schell Games November 30, 2016 Read less Job Simulator: The 2050 Archives Windows Mixed Reality, SteamVR, PlayStation VR, Meta Quest, Meta Rift, Meta Quest 2 Simulator Owlchemy Labs Owlchemy Labs April 05, 2016 Read less The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim VR Meta Quest 2 Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Bethesda Game Studios Bethesda Softworks November 17, 2017 Read less Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy The best Mario games of all time, ranked These are the best microphones for streaming you can buy Netflix subscribers are getting one of the decade’s best games The PS5 games with the best graphics Buying Guides Virtual Reality Buying Guides Virtual Reality Gaming Murphy is far more than a man in RoboCop: Rogue City. His robotic and cybernetic enhancements have made him the perfect crime-fighting machine, or so we thought. As it turns out, there is a lot of room for upgrades in your new body and multiple ways to invest your points. The tree is broken down into eight different categories, and each one has three unique perks sprinkled in that give you new and powerful abilities. Or rather, some of them do. Depending on how you want to dispense justice, there are plenty of skills that will be a complete waste of time to get. Before you go on your quest to serve the public trust, protect the innocent, and uphold the law, make sure you know the best skills to unlock in RoboCop: Rogue City.
Best skills to unlock The skill tree in RoboCop: Rogue City is broken into the following eight categories: Combat, Armor, Vitality, Engineering, Focus, Scanning, Deduction, and Psychology. There are 10 slots in each, with perks unlocking at the second, sixth, and final slots. Note that once a skill point is invested, you cannot change your mind later.
Shield You may be in a shiny metallic body, but you aren't invincible. Especially in the early game, you will find yourself a bit less tanky than you expect. Thankfully all you need to do is pump two points into the Armor tree to get the Shield ability. Once active, you reduce all incoming damage by 80%. If you're digging that feeling, you can even go to the next perk which is High Damage Reduction. This is a passive skill that automatically cuts explosive and high-caliber weapon damage by 25%. There's no need to max out this tree since Deflect isn't all that useful in the long run.
Fuse Boxes Recovery Taking less damage is great, but what about when you need to heal? The first perk in Vitality makes Fuse Boxes healing items that restore 50% of your health, plus increases how many OCP Recovery Charges you can store up to 4. Depending on how difficult you find the game, you can continue down to basically get a better version of this skill that makes Fuse Boxes restore all your health and cap your Recovery Charges at 5, or invest all the way and unlock Auto Regeneration to passively restore HP up to 75%.
Dash You're a walking tank, but that doesn't mean you have to move like one. Dash unlocks on the second node of the Engineering tree and gives you, well, a dash! You can use it to slam into enemies, get into or out of cover, or just maneuver around however you need. Movement in RoboCop: Rogue City is a bit clunky, so this makes combat far more responsive.
Enhanced Learning This will be a skill you need to spend a lot of time investing in the Deduction tree to get but should be done as early as possible if you're going to go for it. Enhanced Learning increases all XP gain by 30%, thus making all future skills easier to get. Plus you will get Enhanced Scanning and Enhanced Map on the way, which make doing side missions and gathering items around the map way easier.
Gaming Blink while playing one of the best city-building games, and you'll lose countless hours expanding your city, refining your infrastructure, and focusing your trade. Ever since the original Sim City, we've been losing sleep designing the perfect utopias for our digital citizens, and as time has gone on, they've only gotten more satisfying to build.
Although city-building games usually carry a steep learning curve and tons of content, beginners can dive into any option on our list and have a good time. The genre has expanded to include tons of big hitters, with exciting sequels like Cities Skylines 2 on the horizon. We have a mix of hardcore survival experiences like Frostpunk and minimalist builders like Islanders, so there's something for everyone.
Gaming The PlayStation 5 is looking to dominate the console landscape with its incredible library of games. Like the rest of the industry, Sony saw several major game delays in 2022 (and more this year), but has since dropped several new hit games like God of War Ragnarok, the Resident Evil 4 remake, and Alan Wake 2, among others. There are plenty of games out on PS5 for every kind of gamer.
And there are plenty more great titles on the way — don't forget to check out our list of the best upcoming PS5 games that will come out later this year.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
