Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best PS4 controllers By Gabe Gurwin and Jesse Lennox Close Nothing is worse than having to struggle with a difficult controller. Issues from drifting joysticks to controller size and even syncing your PlayStation 4 controller can be frustrating to deal with. Luckily, there are controllers on the market to match anyone’s gaming style. No matter your budget or preferred genre, you can find a gamepad that fits your needs and tips for saving battery life.
The PlayStation 4 is nearing the end of its lifecycle, and that means we’ve had plenty of time for great controllers to hit the market. From elite esports-ready gamepads to tailor-made fighting game control panels, here are the best controllers currently available for the PlayStation 4.
We’ve also found the best Xbox controllers and Nintendo Switch controllers if you’re looking to upgrade other consoles.
More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder DualShock 4 Comes with every PS4 Usually under warrenty Easy setup Low battery life Included with the PlayStation 4 regardless of which bundle you choose to purchase, the DualShock 4 is one of the best controllers Sony has ever made. Its face buttons are large enough to accommodate nearly any hand size, its triggers are actual triggers rather than the weirdly shaped buttons of the DualShock 3, and its analog sticks have a more thumb-friendly shape. The DualShock 4 is more than just an updated DualShock 3, however, as it packs in a neat touchpad, a great speaker for certain game noises, and a share button to quickly capture your best moments. Its design is so great, in fact, that Sony will be using a very similar one for the PlayStation 5.
Sony doesn’t offer its own Elite controller, but you can now pick up the Back Button Attachment to add a bit more functionality to the standard device. It comes with two mappable buttons, a digital screen that shows the current configuration, and the ability to save multiple presets. For just $29.99, it’s an affordable way to upgrade your controller.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Nacon Wired Compact Control Never runs out of battery Smooth design Better-quality thumbsticks Cord may not be long enough for every situation If your PlayStation 4 is located in a relatively small space and you’re just a few feet away from it during play sessions, you may want to invest in a wired controller to save yourself time spent charging the DualShock 4’s battery. NACON's controller features a 9-foot cord, which should give you plenty of slack, and it includes the same motion control and touch support as the standard DualShock 4.
For the $49 price, you get the full functionality of a regular DualShock 4 in a more rounded, compact design.
The best PS5 controllers for 2023 Early PS5 controller Black Friday deal saves you $20 on an official model The best games on PlayStation Plus, Extra, and Premium Image used with permission by copyright holder Hori Fighting Commander Great for fighting games Small form factor Extra features built in Not useful for other genres The PlayStation 4 is one of the best platforms ever when it comes to fighting games, with everything from Injustice 2 to Guilty Gear Xrd Rev 2 releasing on the system. If you’re a dedicated fighting game player, the DualShock 4 is a decent enough controller, but Hori’s Fighting Commander is the perfect option for players on a budget. The $40 controller features all the face buttons as well as the R1 and R2 buttons on the front of the controller in a similar configuration to the Sega Genesis, as well as additional shoulder buttons, a toggle switch for making the directional pad function as an analog stick, and a turbo button.
Just like with the Xbox One version of the Fighting Commander, the PlayStation 4 controller can also be used for PC games, and it’s compatible with the PlayStation 3 as well. Its small size means you can easily purchase more than one for when your friends come over to get their butts kicked in Dragon Ball FighterZ or Street Fighter V , and it includes a 10-foot cable for ease of use.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Hit Box Durable and easy to transport Great button quality More ergonomic than a fight stick Not super customizable Fighting games rely on precise inputs more than any other genre, and that often means that an analog stick and even a directional pad simply won’t cut it. For these cases, the Hit Box is the answer. The controller has a similar appearance to a fight stick, but it only contains buttons on its top and sides. You can do all the same techniques possible with a traditional controller, but using your entire hand and your fingertips to pull off special attacks leads to fewer mistakes. Pulling off Ryu’s Hadoken move, for instance, can be a little tricky on a gamepad, but it’s a piece of cake with the Hit Box.
Also compatible with PC, the Hit Box has been used in high-level fighting game events such as Evo, and it’s made out of a mix of plexiglass and metal to prevent damage when you’re on the go. As with the Fighting Commander, it’s a wired controller, but the nearly 10 feet of cable you’re given should be enough for all but the largest gaming setups.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Scuf Impact Highly customizable Programable back paddles Durable parts Expensive Scuf’s Impact controller has a bit more of a traditional shape and comes with a whole kit of customization options to get things just right. Along with the customizable controller faceplate, you get four removable paddles that fit into the back for some extra button mapping, electro-magnetic remapping options for easy swaps, adjustable hair-trigger, quick shift trigger stops, and interchangeable thumbsticks to find the best options. It’s the perfect choice if you love tons of personalization and tweaking the controller to find just the right setup. It also supports both wired and wireless modes.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Razer Raiju Ultimate Very high-quality and durable Replacable parts Tactile buttons Expensive Razer is known for crafting high-quality gear, and the Raiju Ultimate is no different. The controller allows for a wide degree of customization using its mobile app, and you can even change out its thumbsticks and D-pads. There’s also an option to reduce the back triggers’ travel time, allowing you to react in the blink of an eye.
The standout feature of the Raiju is arguably its mecha-tactile action buttons. These incredibly responsive buttons give users tactile feedback with a “soft cushioned touch.” You’ll never have to worry if your input went through properly, as Razer’s face buttons are some of the best on the market.
The Raiju Ultimate works as both a wired and wireless device. If you want to take a break from gaming on your PS4, the Raiju is also compatible with most PC games. Out of the box, it’ll work with Steam, but download a few drivers, and you’ll be ready to play nearly everything on your hard drive.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Nacon Revolution Unlimited Pro Can be used wired or wirelessly Long battery life Adjustable weight Not a great-feeling D-pad Although it might not be a familiar name, Nacon has been crafting top-tier gaming products for years. The Revolution Unlimited Pro is a premium gamepad that gives you the ability to play in wired or wireless modes, boasts a seven-hour battery life, and includes customizable joysticks with interchangeable thumbstick heads and shafts.
While most of this puts it on par with something like the Scuff, one of the more unique features of the Revolution Unlimited is the option to change its weight. To add some heft to the gamepad, you can add small, removable pieces to hidden compartments in the controller’s handles — not many other controllers offer this degree of customization.
There are a bunch of other great features — button mapping, dead zone sensitivity, vibration intensity — and you’ll even get a sturdy storage case for the controller and all its extra components. If you’ve got particular tastes when it comes to gamepads and want to be able to take it between PS4 and PC, Nacon’s offering is definitely worth a look.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Logitech G920 Best-feeling racing wheel for consoles Works with PS4, PS5, and PC Force feedback Very expensive for limited use Racing games just don't feel right if you're not gripping a wheel and pressing down on a petal. With so many great racing games available on PS4, you owe it to yourself to experience them in the most immersive way possible by grabbing the Logitech G920 racing wheel and pedals. This wheel-and-pedal combo works with not just your PS4, but PC and PS5 as well, making it a safe investment if you ever upgrade.
Logitech G920 comes with amazing force feedback, a programmable dual-clutch, and a spring brake for an authentic driving feel. This isn't a cheap investment, running around $400, but racing enthusiasts have no better choice. You will feel every bump in the road and rev of the engine when gripping this high-quality controller.
Editors' Recommendations Best PS5 SSD Black Friday deals: Add more storage to your PS5 now The best Switch controllers for 2023 The best PS5 games for 2023 All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond These are the best ultrawide monitors you buy in 2023 Best Products Sony Sony PlayStation Computing Even while facing downAMD's Ryzen 7000 processors, Intel has come out on top with its Raptor Lake CPUs. The best Intel processor you can buy right now is the Core i5-13600K, but in a strange change of pace, Intel has several excellent options on the market right now.
From high-end gaming CPUs to some recent 12th-generation CPUs that are under $100, Intel has a compelling option at just about every price point. The AMD versus Intel war rages on, but for fans of Team Blue, these are the best Intel CPUs you can buy today.
Gaming The prices of games for the PlayStation 5 have steadily increased, with the best PS5 games costing $70 for base editions and more than $100 for special editions. Fortunately, with the arrival of Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days 2023 and the return of Prime Day deals, other retailers are also offering PS5 game deals. One of the top sources for discounts is Best Buy, which has slashed the prices of some of the best RPGs for PS5 and best PS5 games for kids. We've selected our top picks from the sale, but you should also take a look at what else will catch your eye.
To start us off, we have some of the most popular games on sale right now, such as Elden Ring for Computing A 4K monitor will do wonders for any kind of computer setup, whether it's a content creation machine, a work-from-home station, or a gaming rig. They usually don't come cheap, but fortunately, you can enjoy savings right now from Prime Big Deal Days 2023. With the return of Prime Day deals, other retailers have also started offering amazing monitor deals to keep up with Amazon's prices. We've picked our favorites and listed them here, but if something catches your eye, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the transaction right away to make sure that you're able to take advantage of the bargain.
Dell 27-inch S2721QS 4K monitor -- $300, was $330 The Dell S2721QS 4K monitor features 4K Ultra HD resolution on a 27-inch screen, which is in the middle of the recommended range of 24 inches to 32 inches by our computer monitor buying guide, and a 60Hz refresh rate. The monitor comes with Dell's ComfortView Plus technology that reduces harmful blue light without affecting color accuracy, dual 3W speakers, and dual HDMI ports.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
