Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides The best PS4 headsets By Gabe Gurwin and Leijah Petelka Close A good headset is a staple of online gaming — after all, the only thing that can really destroy a good team battle is someone’s mic going out. To avoid tragedies such as these, it’s important to use the right headset. That way, you’ll be able to hear enemies sneak up on you and directions from other players — and, most importantly, other players will be able to hear you.
However, since there are so many good headsets on the market, it can be hard to narrow down which ones will work within your budget and still fit your needs.
The best PS4 headsets at a glance The best Ps4 headset: SteelSeries Arctis Pro The best premium wired headset: Logitech G Pro X The best premium wireless headset: Astro Gaming A50 The best budget wired headset: Turtle Beach Recon 200 The best budget wireless headset: Corsair HS70 Pro Wireless Gaming Headset How we test See more Best PS4 controllers Best gaming headsets Best PS4 games To make things easier, we’ve combed the market for PlayStation 4 headsets and selected the best, including the SteelSeries Arctis Pro, a headset known for its excellent design and high-quality audio. We based our list on a headset’s sound quality, comfort, design, and cost so you can find the perfect fit for your gaming needs. If you’re looking for Xbox One headsets , we’ve found those, too.
The best PS4 headsets at a glance Best PS4 headset: SteelSeries Arctis Pro Best premium wired headset: Logitech G Pro X Best premium wireless headset: Astro Gaming A50 Best wireless headset on a budget: Turtle Beach Recon 200 Best wireless headset on a budget: Corsair HS70 Pro Wireless Gaming Headset The best Ps4 headset: SteelSeries Arctis Pro Image used with permission by copyright holder Why should you buy this? It’s the best gaming headset for virtually any system.
Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today PS Plus is getting an underrated RPG cult classic this month The best PS5 controllers for 2023 Who’s it for? Those who want high fidelity audio and a premium feel.
Why we picked the SteelSeries Arctis Pro: The Arctis Pro excels in so many categories that it’s hard to know where to start. Regardless of your preferred setup, you’ll be able to find a version of the Pro that works for you, as both wired and wireless models exist. Both versions include plug-and-play peripherals that support hi-res sound and enable users to fine-tune EQ settings and surround sound at a much more granular scale than the competition. For multiplayer communication, the headset includes a highly flexible, crystal-clear mic that rivals even some professional-grade audio equipment. Best of all, it does all this without the need for extra software or downloads, which is something that kept previous Arctis headsets from reaching their full potential when connected to a PS4.
If you’re a multiplatform player with either multiple consoles or a gaming PC in addition to your PS4, you’ll be able to enjoy the Arctis Pro on all of those systems as well. Though the optional hi-res GameDAC and the 2.4G Bluetooth receiver box are only compatible with PC and PS4, the Arctis Pro is compatible with virtually every console right out of the box, either through wireless USB or 3.5mm wired connection. All players, regardless of platform, can take advantage of the headset’s excellent stereo mix and super-clear microphone. As a bonus, the package available on the official website even comes with a carrying bag, leather ear cushions, and three months of Tidal HiFi, so you can really test out their sound quality.
Finally, unlike many bulky headsets with gaudy designs, the Arctis Pro’s design looks mature and professional. Its aesthetic mimics stylish audiophile headphones , with a novel, one-size-fits-all headband that is incredibly comfortable and can be customized with different earpad fabrics and headband styles to fit your taste.
Read our full Arctis Pro review The best premium wired headset: Logitech G Pro X Logitech Why should you buy this? Wired performance is excellent for high-quality, competitive connections.
Who’s it for? Gamers who want a headset made for the pros.
Why we picked the Logitech G Pro X: If you’re looking for a wired headset, you’re probably interested in audio quality and accuracy above all — there’s a reason competitive pro players tend to rely on wired headsets, especially for team play. This model was made with just that in mind, featuring an excellent detachable mic with real-time technology for reducing noise, compressing audio streams, and limiting sudden static and bursts of sound for maximum clarity.
The 50mm drivers offer high-quality sound all on their own, but Logitech has made sure to support 7.1 surround sound and object-based surround sound for careful pinpointing of where a noise is coming from (the external sound card included with the headset helps with this. there’s even enough onboard memory to save specific EQ settings for a game if you want to create profiles.
The only real downside to the Logitech G Pro X is that you get every benefit unless you are on a PC to tweak software settings, but it’s still a top-notch choice for PS4 play and a great option if you play on both console and PC.
The best premium wireless headset: Astro Gaming A50 Why should you buy this? It’s one of the most full-featured wireless headsets available for the PS4.
Who’s it for? PlayStation gamers who want a powerful wireless headset (and don’t mind paying for it).
Why we picked the Astro Gaming A50: The latest iterations of Astro’s A50 sport offer all the same hallmarks of their last-gen brethren, and to be honest, we couldn’t be happier with that. The phenomenal headset remains among the best choices on our list — if you can justify the exorbitant price tag — granting you 5.8GHz wireless technology and virtual 7.1 surround sound within a solid, over-the-ear design. The uni-directional mic helps isolate your voice from surrounding background noise, while a built-in feature allows you to engage the mute function by simply flipping the boom upward. The three distinct EQ modes, terrific sound reproduction, and cross-platform support grant it even more appeal.
This headset also nails all the feature points you’d expect from high-quality gear, such as auto shutoff, a hassle-free wireless connection, and long battery life. But most importantly, the Astro Gaming A50 makes games more engrossing and entertaining, and it’s also compatible with PC and Mac. For the serious gamer seeking an incredible wireless experience, the A50 is a great choice — provided you’re willing and able to shell out the cash.
Read our full Astro Gaming A50 review The best budget wired headset: Turtle Beach Recon 200 Image used with permission by copyright holder Why should you buy this? It’s an affordable headset with great audio and chat functionality.
Who’s it for? The budget-minded gamer.
Why we picked the Turtle Beach Recon 200 You can pick up something like the PlayStation Gold wireless headset if you’re willing to spend $100 or more, but for sound quality, comfort, and handy chat features on a budget, Turtle Beach has you covered with its Recon 200 wired headset. Equipped with a 3.5mm jack to easily switch between systems to go from Xbox One to PlayStation 4 to Nintendo Switch in a hurry, the Recon 200 has the audio quality you’re looking for in a dedicated gaming headset. Its always-on Bass Boost feature brings extra immersion to your favorite games. Kratos’ “Boy!” cries have never sounded so real.
The Turtle Beach Recon 200 is incredibly affordable for what you’re getting, and it offers much more than just sound quality. The microphone built into the headset is omnidirectional, and it features a flip-to-mute feature, so you don’t have to hit any buttons after turning it to its vertical position. It also has microphone monitoring built-in, so you can hear your own voice levels while you’re chatting with your gaming friends online, and there’s a monitoring wheel on the control panel so you can adjust it on the fly.
Read our full Turtle Beach Recon 200 review The best budget wireless headset: Corsair HS70 Pro Wireless Gaming Headset Image used with permission by copyright holder Why should you buy this? You’ll get a comfortable, great-sounding headset without going broke.
Who’s it for? Those on a tighter budget who still want the convenience of a wireless model.
Why we picked the Corsair HS70 Pro Wireless Gaming Headset: While wireless support is excellent for gaming with the PS4, many wireless models are expensive beasts that not everyone has the budget for, especially gamers that are looking for something a little simpler that lets them save some money.
The Corsairs HS70 fits the bill by focusing on core components and quality: The result is high-end audio in a more affordable package. These headphones include custom-tuned 50mm neodymium drivers, memory foam ear cups with full adjustability, and an omnidirectional, flexible mic that still has a flip-to-mute option to help save time (and can be detached entirely if you prefer). The frequency response range of 20Hz-20kHz and the 32 Ohms impedance rating are what you would expect from any major gaming headset, so you’re not really giving up any sound quality by saving money.
The cut cost is easier to notice with the design, a simplified model with basic memory that skips out on extensive adjustment options for a streamlined design. But since you still get rich audio and support for virtual 7.1 surround sound, we’re certainly not complaining.
How we test Like we do for all the products we test, we put gaming headsets through the wringer. We judge based on a headset’s audio performance, mic performance, and wearability. Evaluating battery life and wireless connectivity, as applicable, is also part of the rundown.
The best way to judge these aspects is by testing a variety of different mediums and genres, from team-focused shooters to more environmental exploration. Our checklist of audio items to explore helps ensure the headsets will sound great during both action-heavy gameplay and in quieter sections. We listen to non-gaming audio and videos, too, including a selection of music from various genres at differing bit rates. By checking the headsets’ specs with a range of audio types, we can discern whether the headsets perform well outside of a gaming context.
To test mics, we record clips of ourselves speaking in quiet and loud environments, both with any noise canceling or enhancements toggled on and off. We use the headsets over multiple days, wearing them while gaming, watching videos, or listening to music to test the veracity of battery life claims.
Ultimately, we want to appraise their long-term wearability and comfort, too, and we keep our list updated for any concerns or new evaluations we may have. Since the PS4 headsets are often compatible with the PS5 (including the picks on our list), we also hop over to the new console when possible and make sure everything is still working according to expectations so you don’t have to worry about updating your headset until you’re ready.
If you’re in the market for a new PS4 headset, our recommendations are your best bet! Editors' Recommendations Naughty Dog confirms The Last of Us Part II Remastered following leak Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music These are the best microphones for streaming you can buy The best PS5 exclusives The PS5 games with the best graphics Buying Guides Buying Guides Sony Sony PlayStation Gaming It's out with the old and in with the new for the PlayStation 5, as Sony has replaced its old 2020 model with a slimmer redesign. The new model fixes one of its predecessor's biggest issues thanks to its 1TB storage upgrade. As is the case with any console, not all of that space is actually usable. In testing our own review unit, we've been able to break down just how much of an upgrade it actually is.
When popping into the storage menu, the new PS5 says it has 848GB of space. You'll find that some of that is already taken up by a few things, including Astro's Playroom, which comes installed on the system out the box. That'll leave you with 830.6GB, though you can delete the game to get 11.06GB back. The only thing you can't cut is 6.33GB of system files. All in all, that means you have roughly 842.2GB of usable space.
Gaming Murphy is far more than a man in RoboCop: Rogue City. His robotic and cybernetic enhancements have made him the perfect crime-fighting machine, or so we thought. As it turns out, there is a lot of room for upgrades in your new body and multiple ways to invest your points. The tree is broken down into eight different categories, and each one has three unique perks sprinkled in that give you new and powerful abilities. Or rather, some of them do. Depending on how you want to dispense justice, there are plenty of skills that will be a complete waste of time to get. Before you go on your quest to serve the public trust, protect the innocent, and uphold the law, make sure you know the best skills to unlock in RoboCop: Rogue City.
Best skills to unlock The skill tree in RoboCop: Rogue City is broken into the following eight categories: Combat, Armor, Vitality, Engineering, Focus, Scanning, Deduction, and Psychology. There are 10 slots in each, with perks unlocking at the second, sixth, and final slots. Note that once a skill point is invested, you cannot change your mind later.
Shield You may be in a shiny metallic body, but you aren't invincible. Especially in the early game, you will find yourself a bit less tanky than you expect. Thankfully all you need to do is pump two points into the Armor tree to get the Shield ability. Once active, you reduce all incoming damage by 80%. If you're digging that feeling, you can even go to the next perk which is High Damage Reduction. This is a passive skill that automatically cuts explosive and high-caliber weapon damage by 25%. There's no need to max out this tree since Deflect isn't all that useful in the long run.
Fuse Boxes Recovery Taking less damage is great, but what about when you need to heal? The first perk in Vitality makes Fuse Boxes healing items that restore 50% of your health, plus increases how many OCP Recovery Charges you can store up to 4. Depending on how difficult you find the game, you can continue down to basically get a better version of this skill that makes Fuse Boxes restore all your health and cap your Recovery Charges at 5, or invest all the way and unlock Auto Regeneration to passively restore HP up to 75%.
Dash You're a walking tank, but that doesn't mean you have to move like one. Dash unlocks on the second node of the Engineering tree and gives you, well, a dash! You can use it to slam into enemies, get into or out of cover, or just maneuver around however you need. Movement in RoboCop: Rogue City is a bit clunky, so this makes combat far more responsive.
Enhanced Learning This will be a skill you need to spend a lot of time investing in the Deduction tree to get but should be done as early as possible if you're going to go for it. Enhanced Learning increases all XP gain by 30%, thus making all future skills easier to get. Plus you will get Enhanced Scanning and Enhanced Map on the way, which make doing side missions and gathering items around the map way easier.
Gaming A notification some users received on PS4 and PS5 confirms that the platforms' integration with X -- the social media platform formally known as Twitter -- will go away next week. That means you'll no longer be able to quickly share screenshots or videos to X from the console.
"As of November 13, 2023, integration with X (formerly known as Twitter) will no longer function on PlayStation 5 and PlayStation 4 consoles," the notification (as screenshotted by Wario64) states. "This includes the ability to view any content published on X on PS5/PS4, and the ability to post and view content, trophies, and other gameplay-related activities on X directly from PS5/PS5 (or link an X account to do so)." Since the release of the PS4, people have been able to share screenshots and videos taken with the controller's Share button with social media services. Twitter historically was one of those platforms, but API changes following Elon Musk's buying of the platform and rebranding to X have interfered with its integration with many platforms. Now, it seems that Sony has decided that it's best just to rid PlayStation platforms of any X integration whatsoever. PlayStation has not publicly commented on why it's removing this feature yet, but we've contacted them for comment and will update this story when we get a response.
If there are any screenshots or videos on your PS4 or PS5 that you want to get onto X, you have until November 13 to do so. After that, Apple, Discord, Spotify, Twitch, and YouTube will be the only services one can link their PlayStation account to.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
