Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best GTA Games GTA 5 Cheats Fastest Cars in GTA 5 GTA 5 Mods GTA 6 Sell Cars in GTA 5 Home Gaming Guides The best games on Steam By Gabe Gurwin Close Despite competing platforms like the Epic Games Store and Origin, Steam remains the place to play on PC. Our list of the best Steam games shows why. Steam boasts the largest library of titles on PC, with everything from indie visual novels to blockbuster action games.
Monster Hunter World Final Fantasy XIV Red Dead Redemption 2 Apex Legends Destiny 2 Dota 2 Divinity: Original Sin II Civilization VI Counter-Strike: Global Offensive Disco Elysium Grand Theft Auto V Hitman 2 Portal 2 The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim The Witcher III: Wild Hunt Undertale Planet Coaster Stardew Valley Celeste No matter if you just a built a PC or if you’re looking to pad your library, we have a list of the top games that you can play on Steam right now.
Further reading The best free-to-play games on PC The best single-player games on PC The best multiplayer games on PC Monster Hunter World Image used with permission by copyright holder Monter Hunter World is the first Monster Hunter game on PC, and it happens to be one of the best. With a refined approach that emphasizes accessibility, Monster Hunter World serves as an excellent entry point in Capcom’s iconic series. The Scoutflies help newcomers know where to go, all without messing with the combat that the Monster Hunter franchise is known for. You can easily dump hundreds of hours into Monster Hunter World, and with the excellent Iceborne expansion, hundreds more.
Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best Call of Duty games, ranked Netflix subscribers are getting one of the decade’s best games Read our Monster Hunter World review Final Fantasy XIV Image used with permission by copyright holder Final Fantasy XIV is quickly becoming the go-to MMO. It has grown from a buggy, empty mess at launch to one of the richest MMO experience available, teeming with players and content to keep your busy. It still requires a monthly subscription, unlike The Elder Scrolls Online and some other MMOs, but you can take play the game for dozens of hours with the free trial.
 In addition to the base game, the trial includes all the content from the first expansion, free of charge.
Read our Final Fantasy XIV Shadowbringers review Red Dead Redemption 2 Rockstar Games Red Dead Redemption 2 lets you live on the American frontier. You play as John Marsh, a thief looking to get out of the business, as he travels across the Great Plains encountering friends, foes, and gold. Although Red Dead Redemption 2 features a story for the ages, simply living in the beautiful world Rockstar created is worth the price of admission. You can play it as a cinematic blockbuster or a full-fledged cowboy simulator, and both experiences are excellent.
Read our Red Dead Redemption 2 review Apex Legends Image used with permission by copyright holder Respawn Entertainment’s Apex Legends is a rockstar of a battle royale. Rising to the top of the best battle royale games within days of launching, Apex Legends has continued to prove that it has the staying power to keep fans hooked. Like similar games, you drop into a battle zone with nothing to your name, and you’ll need to loot, shoot, and sprint to make it to the winner’s circle. Respawn enhances the experience with fast movement mechanics that allow you to make it across the massive map with ease, and the developer continues to add new modes to give players something else to chew on.
Read our Apex Legends review Destiny 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder Destiny 2 has consistently been one of the most popular games on Steam since it arrived on the platform a few years ago, and it’s easy to see why. With fluid gunplay, vast maps to explore, and an endless stream of content, Destiny 2 is a game that can grab you and hold you for months or even years. If you’re into first-person shooters, you’ll find something in Destiny 2.
Crucible offers a traditional competitive experience, Gambit changes up PvP gameplay, and strikes allow you to team up with your friends. That’s not to mention all the story and seasonal content, which is updated multiple times each year.
Read our Destiny 2 review Dota 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder Dota 2 remains one of the most hotly competitive MOBA games around. Going toe-to-toe with League of Legends, it delivers similarly strategic gameplay that’s dominated by some of the most competitive esports players on the planet. Unlike League, however, you have access to all of the characters in Dota 2, even as a free player. That allows you to compete on a level playing field regardless of how much money you have to spend, which is likely why Dota 2 is frequently the most played game on Steam.
Divinity: Original Sin II Image used with permission by copyright holder Divinity: Original Sin II captures what Steam is all about. It’s a dense RPG with plenty of achievements and Steam trading cards, and it has a packed Steam community, with guides for everything from outfitting your character to choosing the proper weapon. Outside of deeply ingraining with Steam’s social features, Divinity: Original Sin II is just a great game. It’s a sprawling CRPG with a thoroughly engrossing story and deep, tactical combat. Even better, the Steam version supports cross-save with Nintendo Switch , so you can take your adventure on the go without losing any progress.
Civilization VI Image used with permission by copyright holder Civilization VI — and all of the Civ games, for that matter — are deeply complex, 4X strategy games, but you’d never know that as a newcomer. Although there are plenty of tips and tricks to learn , Civilization VI is still accessible to someone new to the genre. That’s all the more impressive, considering the game doesn’t sacrifice any of the depth that strategy fans love. If you’re new, make sure to check out our leaders and cultures guide. That’ll give a good overview of how to play whatever leader you want.
Read our Civilization VI review Counter-Strike: Global Offensive Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s hard to choose a better Steam game than one made by the developers who made Steam.
Counter-Strike: Global Offensive remains one of the most relevant competitive shooters, despite being nearly a decade old.
CS:GO’ s simplistic yet ruthlessly competitive multiplayer traps players in for hours on end. It’s a game where you want to play for just one more round. Valve recently moved CS:GO to a free-to-play model , too, so you can jump in on the action without spending any money.
Disco Elysium Image used with permission by copyright holder Disco Elysium is a game about choice. The game starts when you, playing as a detective, wake up in a grungy motel without any indication of how you got there. Worse, you can’t even remember your own name. Things start to clear up when you meet your supposed partner in the motel lobby, who informs you that the two of you are there investigating a body hanging from a tree in the back. From there, it’s up to you to role-play how you want, building or destroying your character in any way you see fit.
Grand Theft Auto V Image used with permission by copyright holder Rockstar’s latest crime-causing social satire sold more than 100 million copies for a reason: Grand Theft Auto V is a magnificent, open-world action game with enough content to keep players busy for years. Many have willingly done so, enjoying its single-player content as well as the always-evolving Grand Theft Auto Online.
 The Steam version wasn’t available when the game first launched, but user-created content and mods have helped to make it the definitive version of the game.
Read our full Grand Theft Auto V review Hitman 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Hitman series has always been at its best when it allows players to just experiment and see the craziest things they can do in its sandbox levels, and IO Interactive has never understood that more than in Hitman 2.
 The game only contains a few different locations, but all of them are endlessly replayable with different ways you can assassinate your target.
Want to throw someone into a pit of cement or have defense robots shoot your target so you don’t get your hands dirty? You can, or you could just shoot them or throw them off a roof like a “normal” assassin. The only limits here are in your imagination, and new “Elusive Targets” give you a reason to keep coming back.
Read our full Hitman 2 review Portal 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder It has been available for nearly a decade, but Valve’s Portal 2 remains one of the most engaging, hilarious, and creative video games ever made. Building on the portal-traveling premise of the original but with more complex puzzles, an even funnier storyline, and a charming new companion character, Portal 2 managed to smash the lofty expectations fans had, and it remains just as playable now as when it first released. User-created levels let you play others’ puzzles, and a separate cooperative mode makes it perfect to enjoy with a friend.
Read our full Portal 2 review The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim Image used with permission by copyright holder Sure, you can play The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim on just about any device imaginable at this point, but none of them can hold a candle to the PC version. With mod support, higher resolution, better textures, and even fan-made story content, it’s the definitive platform for Bethesda’s masterpiece. The Steam community is still active, too, with a laundry list of guides on how to make your copy look its best.
The role-playing adventure is set in one of the most gorgeous and fully-realized worlds ever made, filled with secrets to uncover and monsters to slay, and you can always make your own fun by causing chaos if you don’t want to do quests.
Read our full The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim review The Witcher III: Wild Hunt Image used with permission by copyright holder Very few developers can create a world as lifelike and “lived in” as CD Projekt Red, but the Polish studio’s role-playing game isn’t just a virtual sandbox – it also has one of the best-written stories in the medium, whether you’re enjoying the main quest or one of the game’s countless side missions. No two missions in The Witcher III are the same, and seeing everything the game has to offer can take hundreds of hours. It’s a testament to the game’s quality that many players are willing to spend that time.
Read our full The Witcher III: Wild Hunt review Undertale Image used with permission by copyright holder Toby Fox’s Undertale looks like a simple retro-inspired role-playing game at first glance, but that is merely a curtain, behind which a truly brilliant adventure hides. Subverting traditional role-playing conventions, Undertale manages to be a commentary on video games themselves, poking fun at character tropes, user interfaces, and combat mechanics while telling a hilarious story. It’s certainly not going to push the power of your PC – or Mac, as it runs on both – but it’s the type of game you won’t find anywhere else.
Planet Coaster Image used with permission by copyright holder The RollerCoaster Tycoon series has been in total free-fall over the last several years, but that doesn’t mean there isn’t a great theme park simulation to play on Steam. Created by simulation masters Frontier Developments, Planet Coaster is everything you could want from a modern RollerCoaster Tycoon game, including detailed coaster creation and customization options, as well as the ability to micromanage every aspect of your park. We all know that means you’re going to try to kill your guests, but don’t just say that.
Stardew Valley Image used with permission by copyright holder What do you do when you can’t wait any longer to play a full-fledged Harvest Moon sequel? If you’re designer Eric Barone, you just make your own game, instead.
Stardew Valley may have aimed to continue the Harvest Moon legacy, but Barone’s game surpasses its inspiration with a colorful cast of characters, deep customization and crop options, gorgeous pixel artwork, and the charm and love that only a truly passionate creator could give a project.
With multiplayer and consistent updates, Stardew Valley has only gotten better with age, too.
Celeste Image used with permission by copyright holder Story isn’t the main concern of most 2D platforming games, but Celeste isn’t a typical 2D platforming game. Protagonist Madeline has a seemingly straightforward goal of summiting the titular mountain, but her journey is complicated by a surprising number of supernatural elements. Every stage in the game utilizes a simple air-dash ability, which transforms them into mini-puzzles. The ingenious design makes Celeste one of the most entertaining games available on Steam.
Read our full Celeste review Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy The best Mario games of all time, ranked These are the best microphones for streaming you can buy The PS5 games with the best graphics Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld Buying Guides Buying Guides Grand Theft Auto PC Gaming Gaming Murphy is far more than a man in RoboCop: Rogue City. His robotic and cybernetic enhancements have made him the perfect crime-fighting machine, or so we thought. As it turns out, there is a lot of room for upgrades in your new body and multiple ways to invest your points. The tree is broken down into eight different categories, and each one has three unique perks sprinkled in that give you new and powerful abilities. Or rather, some of them do. Depending on how you want to dispense justice, there are plenty of skills that will be a complete waste of time to get. Before you go on your quest to serve the public trust, protect the innocent, and uphold the law, make sure you know the best skills to unlock in RoboCop: Rogue City.
Best skills to unlock The skill tree in RoboCop: Rogue City is broken into the following eight categories: Combat, Armor, Vitality, Engineering, Focus, Scanning, Deduction, and Psychology. There are 10 slots in each, with perks unlocking at the second, sixth, and final slots. Note that once a skill point is invested, you cannot change your mind later.
Shield You may be in a shiny metallic body, but you aren't invincible. Especially in the early game, you will find yourself a bit less tanky than you expect. Thankfully all you need to do is pump two points into the Armor tree to get the Shield ability. Once active, you reduce all incoming damage by 80%. If you're digging that feeling, you can even go to the next perk which is High Damage Reduction. This is a passive skill that automatically cuts explosive and high-caliber weapon damage by 25%. There's no need to max out this tree since Deflect isn't all that useful in the long run.
Fuse Boxes Recovery Taking less damage is great, but what about when you need to heal? The first perk in Vitality makes Fuse Boxes healing items that restore 50% of your health, plus increases how many OCP Recovery Charges you can store up to 4. Depending on how difficult you find the game, you can continue down to basically get a better version of this skill that makes Fuse Boxes restore all your health and cap your Recovery Charges at 5, or invest all the way and unlock Auto Regeneration to passively restore HP up to 75%.
Dash You're a walking tank, but that doesn't mean you have to move like one. Dash unlocks on the second node of the Engineering tree and gives you, well, a dash! You can use it to slam into enemies, get into or out of cover, or just maneuver around however you need. Movement in RoboCop: Rogue City is a bit clunky, so this makes combat far more responsive.
Enhanced Learning This will be a skill you need to spend a lot of time investing in the Deduction tree to get but should be done as early as possible if you're going to go for it. Enhanced Learning increases all XP gain by 30%, thus making all future skills easier to get. Plus you will get Enhanced Scanning and Enhanced Map on the way, which make doing side missions and gathering items around the map way easier.
Gaming Blink while playing one of the best city-building games, and you'll lose countless hours expanding your city, refining your infrastructure, and focusing your trade. Ever since the original Sim City, we've been losing sleep designing the perfect utopias for our digital citizens, and as time has gone on, they've only gotten more satisfying to build.
Although city-building games usually carry a steep learning curve and tons of content, beginners can dive into any option on our list and have a good time. The genre has expanded to include tons of big hitters, with exciting sequels like Cities Skylines 2 on the horizon. We have a mix of hardcore survival experiences like Frostpunk and minimalist builders like Islanders, so there's something for everyone.
Gaming The PlayStation 5 is looking to dominate the console landscape with its incredible library of games. Like the rest of the industry, Sony saw several major game delays in 2022 (and more this year), but has since dropped several new hit games like God of War Ragnarok, the Resident Evil 4 remake, and Alan Wake 2, among others. There are plenty of games out on PS5 for every kind of gamer.
And there are plenty more great titles on the way — don't forget to check out our list of the best upcoming PS5 games that will come out later this year.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
