Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Guides How to connect a Nintendo Switch controller to your PC or Mac By Gabe Gurwin and Jon Bitner Close One reason that so many gamers appreciate the Nintendo Switch is that its Bluetooth technology easily hooks up and connects to nearby PCs. You can even do this with the Joy-Con and Switch Pro controllers if you have one.
How to connect Joy-Con controllers to your PC How to connect the Switch Pro Controller using Steam How to connect the Switch Pro Controller via Bluetooth Other things to keep in mind Difficulty Duration What You Need Nintendo Switch Windows or Mac computer It takes a bit more elbow grease to get it working with all your games when compared to connecting an Xbox controller , but it’s a great option if you already own a Switch. Before you connect your Nintendo Switch controller to your laptop or another Android device, you should make sure that you’ve got a Bluetooth receiver and that both objects are relatively close together. Once that’s squared away, here’s how to get connected.
How to connect Joy-Con controllers to your PC You can easily pair Joy-Con controllers with a Windows or Mac computer from directly within the Bluetooth menu. Follow the steps below to do so.
Step 1: Turn on Bluetooth on your computer.
Step 2: Disconnect the Joy-Cons from the Switch.
The best Switch controllers for 2023 Sony’s new PlayStation earbuds are a perfect match — for my Nintendo Switch When does Hogwarts Legacy come out on Nintendo Switch? Step 3: Hold the Sync button on the Joy-Cons, located between the SR and SL buttons, until the LED lights start flashing.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Look for the Joy-Con in your computer’s Bluetooth menu, and select the option to pair it with your device.
There are some quirks to watch out for, such as when the pairing lights on the Joy-Cons won’t stop blinking. You can confirm that the controller is connected, however, by looking at your computer’s Bluetooth settings. If you see the error message below, move the controller around to ensure no other devices are interfering with the signal. Then try again.
Unfortunately, the two Joy-Cons will be treated as separate controllers by default. That’s great for two-player games, but it makes them useless for playing anything complex, like a first-person shooter.
There is a fairly elaborate workaround to sync a pair of Joy-Cons together as a single controller, and it involves multiple external programs and some intensive tinkering. We think the process we’ve described is the best way to go, but if you’re interested, follow the steps outlined by this Reddit user.
How to connect the Switch Pro Controller using Steam The Steam client now officially supports the Switch Pro Controller, with it previously only being available in the beta client. This gives you the ability to use it with all of your PC games and even remap its buttons, should you see fit.
Step 1: Head to the Controller Settings menu in Steam. From here, you can check support for the Switch Pro Controller and enable the Use Nintendo Button Layout option, which changes all your games’ button prompts to match the Pro Controller. If you leave this unchecked, the A/B and X/Y buttons will be swapped, like they are on the Xbox One.
Step 2: Next, plug in your Switch Pro Controller with a USB cable, and you’ll be asked to register it as well as calibrate the built-in gyro sensor for motion control in certain games.
Step 3: Once you’ve done that, select Controller Configuration , and you can set the function of every button and stick on the controller, make preset configurations for certain games, or choose a community member’s own configuration by pressing the X button. If you like, you can even bind the gyro sensor to a particular function, which could enable you to be nearly as accurate as mouse-and-keyboard players in certain games.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to connect the Switch Pro Controller via Bluetooth If you aren’t using Steam, you can also connect the Pro Controller directly to your Windows or MacOS machine via Bluetooth. This way is a little trickier than connecting via USB, so we're only reserving this method for when you plan to use the Pro Controller with games on a different platform, such as EA Origin, Ubisoft’s UPlay store, and Battle.Net.
Just like with the Joy-Con controllers, you’re going to use Bluetooth to connect the Pro Controller to a desktop PC or an alternative device. The steps are essentially the same as connecting the Joy-Cons, so check the bullet points above for the exact method. The sync button for the Pro Controller is located at the top of the controller, directly to the left of the USB-C plug.
The Pro Controller should prove more viable for a wider range of games than the Joy-Cons, namely because it touts a more traditional layout, although it’s not compatible with everything. That’s due to the controller APIs in use; the Pro Controller apparently uses DirectInput, rather than the newer API XInput, making it incompatible with many newer games.
One method to get around this is to download the freeware program x360ce , which translates DirectInput commands for XInput games. It was specifically designed for Xbox 360 controllers, so x360ce does recognize the Switch Pro Controller.
Using it requires some gaming savvy, which, to be fair, you probably have if you’re attempting this in the first place. It’s an imperfect solution — not every game will work, no matter what you do. For now, we’ll have to wait for the homebrew community to come up with their own methods.
One more thing to keep in mind if you connect the controller wirelessly: You can’t charge the Pro Controller while it’s paired via Bluetooth. If you plan to connect it for non-Steam gaming, plug in the Pro Controller before and after, especially if it’s your controller of choice for marathon sessions. Thankfully, the Pro Controller has exceptional battery life — 40-plus hours on a full charge.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Other things to keep in mind If you’re using the Joy-Cons, keep in mind that connectivity issues may translate to similar problems on other devices. Connection challenges with the left Joy-Con on the Switch were common in the Switch’s early days. If you notice lagging or other quirks with either Joy-Con, you can expect pairing with a PC to be a bit more finicky. Plus, the Bluetooth connection can be iffy and is typically vulnerable to interfering devices. Questionable Bluetooth is a problem that plagues plenty of accessories, so we can’t fault Nintendo too much. For the most straightforward pairing, keep the line between the Joy-Con and your PC clear. If it becomes inconsistent, try adjusting where you hold the controller.
If you’ve never had Joy-Con problems, you’re probably lucky enough not to have a faulty unit. Nintendo said shortly after the launch of the Switch that it had corrected future shipments’ connectivity issues. So if you didn’t buy your console when the Switch launched in 2017, you would likely encounter fewer problems. Or, if you purchased another Joy-Con recently, it’s probably free of whatever bug plagued earlier versions.
Our appreciation for finding new methods to hack technology makes it easy to ignore a few connectivity issues. We’ve had emulators for game consoles on PCs for years, but every new gaming console launch comes with the challenge of adapting the latest technology for PC gaming. Because most controllers are now wireless, it’s harder to ensure they work across different games. For the time being, they use the popular Bluetooth technology.
Most Macs and Windows PCs come with Bluetooth cards inside. Older computers might not have Bluetooth connectivity, which will limit your ability to play computer games with updated controllers.
Outside of the Steam realm, both the Pro Controller and Joy-cons are excellent for playing older games compatible with DirectInput API and simple controls. Both of these controllers are also suited to play games through your PC’s emulator, which is handy if you like to play old-school Nintendo games on modern technology. It might take some adjusting to get used to using upgraded controllers to play your retro favorites, but it’s a bunch of fun once you learn.
Editors' Recommendations Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and more One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday Saves $40 on the Zelda edition of the Nintendo Switch OLED Over 150 Nintendo Switch games are discounted at Best Buy right now How-To Guides Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming If you want to get the Nintendo Switch OLED for a cheaper price but you haven't had any luck finding Nintendo Switch deals, you may want to consider getting a refurbished version of the console. Back Market is offering the gaming device in Fair condition for as low as $270, for savings of $80 on its brand-new price of $350, though you can also get it in Good condition for $274 and in Excellent condition for $294. You'll have to choose quickly though, as there are limited stocks.
Why you should buy the refurbished Nintendo Switch OLED You have a choice among three different conditions if you buy a refurbished Nintendo Switch OLED from Back Market. A console in Fair condition means there are visible signs of wear, Good condition means there are faint signs of wear, and Excellent condition means it looks like new. In any case, the refurbished device is guaranteed to be working perfectly, and for your peace of mind, Back Market offers free 30-day returns and a one-year warranty for a repair or replacement if you encounter a technical issue.
Gaming Whether you've just purchased the Nintendo Switch or you've had it since day one, you should always be on the lookout for video game deals that will expand your collection of titles for the console. Here's an offer from Amazon's Woot that you should consider -- Minecraft Legends Deluxe Edition at half-price, following a $25 discount on its original price of $50. You'll have to hurry if you want to get this game for just $25 though, as there's a chance that it gets sold out sooner than you think.
Why you should buy Minecraft Legends Deluxe Edition for Nintendo Switch Minecraft, one of the bestselling video games of all time, is an action-adventure sandbox game where players can explore a limitless world and build to their heart's content. Minecraft Legends is a spinoff real-time strategy game where you'll command minions to attack the outposts of Piglins, which invaded the Overworld, and create defenses to protect villages. You'll have to gather resources from the game's procedurally generated open world in order to build structures and make upgrades, and you'll need to recruit Minecraft favorites like Golems, Skeletons, Creepers, and Zombies to help in your fight to save the Overworld from the invaders. You can also play the multiplayer modes of Minecraft Legends with your friends if you want a faster version of the campaign mode, though it's recommended that you master the mechanics first before jumping into them.
Gaming September 19’s massive Xbox leak revealed a lot of neat hardware we weren’t supposed to know about. While getting a peek into Microsoft’s ideas for a mid-gen console refresh and even its next-generation console is exciting, the leaked piece of hardware that intrigued me the most is the new Xbox controller, codenamed Sebile.
Also referred to as “The New Xbox Controller” in the leaked Roadmap to 2030 document from May 2022, this Sebile controller includes many neat features that could help an Xbox controller stand out from the competition. While Microsoft’s controllers have all felt great to use since the days of the Xbox 360, Microsoft's primary controller haven’t innovated as much as the competition in recent generations.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
