Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to connect Joy-Cons to the Nintendo Switch Lite By Gabe Gurwin Close The Nintendo Switch Lite functions differently than the standard Nintendo Switch.
 Specifically, you cannot actually switch the console between handheld mode and docked mode. Part of the reason for this is that the controls on the Switch Lite are not detachable from the system itself. This gives the Switch Lite a lower price and allows for much more portability.
Before you connect Joy-Cons to the Nintendo Switch Lite Pair the Joy-cons to your Switch Lite Can you use the Pro controller with the Nintendo Switch Lite? However, this design choice does not mean Joy-Con controllers are completely incompatible with the Switch Lite. In fact, with the right accessories and a few tips, you can play with the Switch Lite in tabletop mode and control it via Joy-Con controllers. Here’s how to use Joy-Con controllers on the Nintendo Switch Lite.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Nintendo Switch Lite Nintendo Switch-compatible Joy-Cons Joy-Con charging station Nintendo Switch Lite playstand Joy-Con grips (optional) Image used with permission by copyright holder Before you connect Joy-Cons to the Nintendo Switch Lite You will need a couple of accessories before you can use the Joy-Con controllers with theNintendo Switch Lite. The first being the Joy-Con controllers , themselves.
They come in packs of one or two with Joy-Con straps for horizontal play. We recommend getting the two-pack as this will let you play all Switch games with the Joy-Cons since some do not support single Joy-Con play.
If you plan on playing with other people in games like Mario Kart 8 Deluxe , then you should pick up a second two-pack of Joy-Con controllers.
Step 1: Next, you need to purchase a charging station for the controllers since Joy-Cons cannot be charged using the Switch Lite. There’s a four-controller charging station you can get online or in most major retailers that is powered using a USB connection. It even offers battery-level indicators for the controllers.
When you aren’t using the Joy-Con controllers, they should be stored in the station so they’re always ready to go.
Step 2: If you’re going to be playing your Nintendo Switch Lite using Joy-Cons, you’ll need something to hold it upright since it doesn’t include the mini kickstand of its predecessor. We recommend the HORI Dual USB Playstand because of its charging and connecting features. However, any stand that puts the Switch Lite in an upright position will do.
The best Switch controllers for 2023 All upcoming Switch games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Saves $40 on the Zelda edition of the Nintendo Switch OLED Step 3: This step is optional, but if you want more of a true controller feel, it’s recommended to get a Joy-Con grip, which will allow you to slide your Joy-Con into a mold that feels like a traditional game pad. They’re hard to come by these days, as are most Nintendo Switch accessories, including the system itself.
Nintendo Pair the Joy-cons to your Switch Lite Once you have charged controllers, pick up a left and right Joy-Con and get ready to connect them to the Nintendo Switch Lite.
Step 1: Turn your system on and select the Controllers tab at the bottom of the home menu.
Step 2: Select the Change Grip and Order option. Your Switch Lite is now ready to pair with your Joy-Cons.
Step 3: Press down the syncing button for a second or two on the Joy-Con controller you’re pairing. It’s located along the railing, so remove the Joy-Con strap if you already have it on the controller.
It should pair after a few seconds Step 4: You can then choose which control configuration you want to use by holding down the L and R buttons on the controllers. If you’re using two controllers, press L on the left one and R on the right one. If you are only using one, flip it sideways and hit the little L and R buttons located on the railing.
At this point, you can put the Joy-Con straps back on your controllers.
When you put the Switch Lite to sleep, the Joy-Con controllers should automatically disconnect. However, they should still be synced, so just touch the home button or a face button on each one when you’re ready to connect to the Switch Lite again.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Can you use the Pro controller with the Nintendo Switch Lite? Players can play with the out-of-this-world Pro Controller alongside the Switch Lite. You simply have to follow the same process as if you were playing with Joy-Cons. Gamers will quickly spot that gameplay functions appear remarkably similar to using a Pro Controller when in tabletop mode on the original Switch.
To cut down on time and work spent in setup, we recommend that you pair the Pro Controller to a USB (if your setup supports it). The gameplay also works best if you’re using a Nintendo-approved and supported hub device. If that sounds unfamiliar to you and you’re not sure what to consider buying, we recommend checking out the HORI Dual USB Playstand.
This particular arrangement will allow you to charge up your system and will feature a useful kickstand. To start, place your Switch Lite on the stand and link your Pro Controller with the USB cable. After that’s complete, you’re ready to start playing.
Editors' Recommendations Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and more The best Switch games for 2023 When does Hogwarts Legacy come out on Nintendo Switch? Over 150 Nintendo Switch games are discounted at Best Buy right now Don’t pay full price for a Nintendo Switch OLED — save $80 How-To How-To Guides Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming Whether you've just purchased the Nintendo Switch or you've had it since day one, you should always be on the lookout for video game deals that will expand your collection of titles for the console. Here's an offer from Amazon's Woot that you should consider -- Minecraft Legends Deluxe Edition at half-price, following a $25 discount on its original price of $50. You'll have to hurry if you want to get this game for just $25 though, as there's a chance that it gets sold out sooner than you think.
Why you should buy Minecraft Legends Deluxe Edition for Nintendo Switch Minecraft, one of the bestselling video games of all time, is an action-adventure sandbox game where players can explore a limitless world and build to their heart's content. Minecraft Legends is a spinoff real-time strategy game where you'll command minions to attack the outposts of Piglins, which invaded the Overworld, and create defenses to protect villages. You'll have to gather resources from the game's procedurally generated open world in order to build structures and make upgrades, and you'll need to recruit Minecraft favorites like Golems, Skeletons, Creepers, and Zombies to help in your fight to save the Overworld from the invaders. You can also play the multiplayer modes of Minecraft Legends with your friends if you want a faster version of the campaign mode, though it's recommended that you master the mechanics first before jumping into them.
Gaming If you want to expand your library of Nintendo Switch games (or if you want to add more titles to your list of backlogs -- we won't judge!), you may want to take a look at Best Buy's Nintendo Switch game sale. There's something for everyone, including casual gamers and hardcore tacticians, but you're going to have to hurry if you're planning to purchase any of these video game deals because we're not sure when these offers will expire. Keep adding to your cart, then check out as soon as possible to make sure you don't miss out on the potential savings.
What to buy in Best Buy's Nintendo Switch game sale The Nintendo Switch game with the lowest price in Best Buy's sale is Gaming Each major gaming platform has its own subscription service, giving players added bonuses such as access to certain games and other perks for a monthly fee. Xbox has Game Pass, PlayStation has PlayStation Plus, and Nintendo Switch offers the Nintendo Switch Online program.
While Nintendo's service isn't on the same level as the other two across PlayStation and Xbox, it does give subscribers access to some of the best retro games of all time -- and even more if you have the Expansion Pack upgrade, which includes N64, Sega Genesis, and Game Boy Advance games, along with DLC packs for certain Switch titles. Included with the basic version of the Nintendo Switch Online subscription is the ability to play online, plus access to NES and SNES games.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
