Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides How to gameshare on PS4 By Gabe Gurwin and Ryan Epps Close Ever buy a game that you were really excited about, only to find out it was a total dud? Nothing is more frustrating than purchasing a game, then realizing it really isn't that great. It used to be possible for players to share cartridges or discs to try games with friends, but with the rise in popularity of digital games, sharing discs and cartridges isn't as plausible as it used to be.
How to gameshare on PS4 Warnings and precautions Difficulty Duration What You Need PS4 console Luckily, it’s still possible to share games with friends or to try out games that your friends own, even if you only have a digital copy. With PlayStation 4 and a little finagling, you’re still able to gameshare with friends and family, potentially saving you a ton of cash.
See more Best PS4 games Best indie games on PS4 Best PS4 shooter games How to gameshare on PS4 This walkthrough will teach you how to gameshare on PS4. In the simplest terms, it allows you and another person to connect your libraries of games purchased on the PlayStation store and to access them collectively with fewer restrictions attached. For this process, you will only need access to a friend’s PS4 and your main account details.
Step 1: Start by logging in to your PlayStation Network account on a friend’s console.
Step 2: Select Settings in the main PlayStation 4 menu.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to respec in Persona 5 Tactica PS Plus is getting an underrated RPG cult classic this month How to fix packet burst in Modern Warfare 3 Step 3: Select Account Management.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Select Activate as Your Primary PS4.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: Select Activate.
 You may need to deactivate your own PS4 console as the primary console to do this. Keep this in mind if you’re having trouble making your friend’s PS4 your primary console.
Image used with permission by copyright holder You should now have access to all of the games in your library available to play on your friend’s console. The titles will still have to be downloaded onto the PS4 hard drive, but there’s no need to sign back into your account on your friend’s PlayStation. If you are exchanging access to your digital game libraries, have your friend or family member complete steps 1 through 4 on your PS4.
Warnings and precautions We want to point out that if you ever want to make serious adjustments to your PSN account or settings (for instance, if you’re leveling up to a PS4 Pro), you’ll have to restart the entire process. You’ll also need to make sure the person you’ve shared your account with terminates the device as your account’s primary system. If not, you won’t be able to set up your PS4 console correctly for the gameshare feature. Because of this and the incredibly intimate nature of account sharing, we highly recommend only sharing gaming accounts with family members and trustworthy friends. Once your new console is updated and ready to go, you can redo the above steps and set up game sharing again.
You also have the option to deactivate a console remotely using the handy PlayStation account management tool. This tool is located in your browser and can be used in any unanticipated situation. Keep in mind, though, that you are only allowed to do this once every six months. It’s also worth mentioning that if you do not have access to your primary console, any other PS4 user sharing your account will also not have access to your game library. Also, if your internet kicks the bucket for a few hours or so, you can’t play PlayStation Plus titles or access anything you’ve saved in the cloud.
The good news is you’re allowed to share your account with as many people as you want. However, there is a catch. You can only go through this process (which lets you play the same game on two consoles simultaneously) with one person. In sum, don’t try to play a game with three other people, as your primary account may be flagged or immediately blocked. Make sure to be cautious with your game and library sharing habits and keep a close eye on who has access.
Editors' Recommendations Naughty Dog confirms The Last of Us Part II Remastered following leak Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music The best PS5 controllers for 2023 How to play split screen in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 The best PS5 exclusives How-To How-To Guides Sony Sony PlayStation Gaming Building your loadout in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 is the same as crafting your build in an RPG. Which weapons and perks you take can completely change how you play and what role you should take in any given match. Typically, you are restricted to equipping a primary and secondary weapon, but previous titles included a perk that allowed you to double up on primary weapons to essentially play double duty. That perk, Overkill, isn't in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, so you will need to look for a different solution to get two primary weapons this time around.
How to equip two primary weapons Instead of the Overkill perk giving you space to carry two primary weapons, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 introduces the Gunner Vest. This is a piece of gear rather than a perk, and can be unlocked when you hit level 20, or you can use the Overkill vest when you hit level 50. The Gunner vest lets you start with more ammo, reload faster, and, most importantly, equip two primary weapons.
Gaming It's out with the old and in with the new for the PlayStation 5, as Sony has replaced its old 2020 model with a slimmer redesign. The new model fixes one of its predecessor's biggest issues thanks to its 1TB storage upgrade. As is the case with any console, not all of that space is actually usable. In testing our own review unit, we've been able to break down just how much of an upgrade it actually is.
When popping into the storage menu, the new PS5 says it has 848GB of space. You'll find that some of that is already taken up by a few things, including Astro's Playroom, which comes installed on the system out the box. That'll leave you with 830.6GB, though you can delete the game to get 11.06GB back. The only thing you can't cut is 6.33GB of system files. All in all, that means you have roughly 842.2GB of usable space.
Gaming A notification some users received on PS4 and PS5 confirms that the platforms' integration with X -- the social media platform formally known as Twitter -- will go away next week. That means you'll no longer be able to quickly share screenshots or videos to X from the console.
"As of November 13, 2023, integration with X (formerly known as Twitter) will no longer function on PlayStation 5 and PlayStation 4 consoles," the notification (as screenshotted by Wario64) states. "This includes the ability to view any content published on X on PS5/PS4, and the ability to post and view content, trophies, and other gameplay-related activities on X directly from PS5/PS5 (or link an X account to do so)." Since the release of the PS4, people have been able to share screenshots and videos taken with the controller's Share button with social media services. Twitter historically was one of those platforms, but API changes following Elon Musk's buying of the platform and rebranding to X have interfered with its integration with many platforms. Now, it seems that Sony has decided that it's best just to rid PlayStation platforms of any X integration whatsoever. PlayStation has not publicly commented on why it's removing this feature yet, but we've contacted them for comment and will update this story when we get a response.
If there are any screenshots or videos on your PS4 or PS5 that you want to get onto X, you have until November 13 to do so. After that, Apple, Discord, Spotify, Twitch, and YouTube will be the only services one can link their PlayStation account to.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
