Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides How to gameshare on an Xbox One By Gabe Gurwin and Jon Bitner Close Gamesharing is one of the best features the gaming world has seen over the past decade. The Xbox One was one of the first consoles to fully embrace this feature, and the simple process allows you to give a person you trust access to your library of downloadable games. This feature would carry forward to the next-generation Series X and S consoles as well.
Additionally, you can gain access to the games on your trusted friend’s Xbox account. The Xbox One, Xbox One S, and Xbox One X make gamesharing easy, but this process does come with a few restrictions that you should know beforehand.
How to gameshare Things you should know before gamesharing How to gameshare on Xbox Series X Difficulty Duration What You Need Any model Xbox One console Xbox Live Gold subscription In order to gameshare on Xbox, you and your friend will both need your own Xbox One systems and accounts. But once that's all put together, gamesharing is incredibly easy. Here are a few steps to follow to get the feature working properly.
Further reading: Best Xbox One games How to connect an Xbox One controller to a PC The best free games on Xbox One How to gameshare Before you start, both you and your gameshare partner will need access to each other’s systems and be willing to exchange account info — including the email associated with your Xbox accounts and the matching passwords.
From here, the following steps will explain what you and your partner should do on your Xbox One. To exchange libraries, you will need to repeat the process twice — once to connect your Xbox One to their account and a second time to connect their Xbox One to your account.
Step 1: Once you’re ready, select the icon at the top left on the home screen, then navigate to the user account menu (again on the left). Select Add new , and then add both accounts to your Xbox One.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: From there, you must make your gameshare partner’s Xbox One your “home Xbox.” Go to Settings > Personalize > Make my home Xbox.
Xbox Series X Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and accessories One of the best games of the year is finally coming to Xbox next month The best perks in Modern Warfare 3 Step 3: In that menu, register the system as your default device. As the description reads: “If you make this your home Xbox, people can play games without having to sign in as you.” Convenient and, of course, exactly what we’re looking to do.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Lastly, all you have to do is go into your game library by selecting My Games & Apps > Ready to Install.
 Here, you should see a list of all the games that are accessible to your account.
 This will now include both your own games and your gameshare partner’s games. Sharing also allows you to split an Xbox Live Gold account.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: To exchange libraries, repeat the steps above on your partner’s device, making their console your “home Xbox.” Things you should know before gamesharing The process comes with a few risks. Your friend will be able to make purchases through your account on the Xbox Store, so be careful about what information you save on your account. We highly recommend you only set up gamesharing with a trusted friend or family member. That way, you won’t have to worry about them making purchases without your permission.
If you lose your internet connection, you won’t be able to access your digital game library unless you’ve identified your Xbox One as your home Xbox. Other users on your console also won’t have access to your games or Xbox Live Gold subscription if it isn’t your home Xbox.
Any time you switch to a new Xbox One or upgrade to an Xbox Series X , you will have to repeat the whole process over again. Also, keep in mind that you can only change your home Xbox five times annually before Microsoft cuts you off from any more changes. This prevents you from frequently switching accounts with your friends to share their games. To ensure you won’t get locked out of your account due to changing your home Xbox, pick one friend to switch with periodically before changing your settings.
How to gameshare on Xbox Series X If you’re looking to gameshare on one of Microsoft’s new systems — Xbox Series X or Xbox Series S — the process is very similar to how it works on Xbox One. We’ve written up a detailed gamesharing on the Xbox Series X guide , walking you through each step of the process, as there are a few key differences. We love the gamesharing feature available on newer consoles since it allows users to share games without spending a lot of extra money.
Editors' Recommendations The best Xbox Series X exclusives Where to find planes in Fortnite OG How to play split screen in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 You only have one week left to share PlayStation clips and screenshots to X Microsoft is making AI game-writing tools for Xbox with Inworld AI How-To Guides Microsoft Xbox Xbox One Gaming The Xbox Series X and Series S have now been out for three years, bringing better resolution, higher frame rates, and ray tracing to gamers around the world. And the upcoming Xbox Series X games on this list promise to continue to show off all those bells and whistles in fun, new experiences.
If you're eager to find out what Microsoft has in store for the years ahead, we've rounded up every game confirmed so far, including new offerings, franchise installments, and ports of existing titles. We're looking beyond the first-party projects here to encompass all the great games coming to this powerful piece of gaming hardware. Maybe some of them will end up being among the best games on Xbox Series X.
Upcoming Xbox Series X games 2023 The games listed below either have 100% confirmed release dates or solid release windows that we expect them to hit this year.
Gaming Alan Wake 2 features an abundance of collectibles to find if you'd like to see and learn about everything the game has to offer, and some of them can actually come in handy for combat, too. While playing as Saga, you're going to want to keep your eyes open for charms to find and equip, most of which can be obtained by completing nursery rhymes around each of the game's three main maps. Below, we've listed all of the charms in the game, what effects they provide, and where you can find them.
All charm locations and effects Logan's Charm Effect: Increases your maximum health.
Location: Obtained automatically at the beginning of the game.
Coffee Mug Charm Effect: Saves you from dying when your health is depleted, but it breaks immediately after.
Gaming There are a lot of collectibles to find in Alan Wake 2, so you're probably wondering if there's a way to show them all on your map. The answer is yes, but only when having the Mayor Setter Charm equipped, which you can't obtain until pretty late in the game by visiting Mayor Setter himself. When that time comes, you may be shocked to find that Mayor Setter is actually a dog. Less shocking, however, is that you'll probably want to pet him.
Luckily, in addition to being a pleasant experience, petting this political canine will accomplish multiple useful things. For starters, you'll earn the trophy or achievement called "The Nice Things in Life," which marks one more thing off your list for 100% completion. But perhaps most importantly, Mayor Setter will bestow upon you the aforementioned Mayor Setter Charm. When wearing this charm in one of your charm slots, you'll be able to spot the locations of basically any collectible on the map, making tracking everything down significantly easier without a guide.
How to get the Mayor Setter Charm and show all collectibles on the map Mayor Setter will spawn in the game in Return 6 after you've spoken with your colleagues in the police station and selected to continue exploring instead of passing the point of no return. At this point, you can return to your car and drive to Watery to find that Mayor Setter is sitting on the stage inside Suomi Hall where you can interact with him to earn the Mayor Setter Charm, which you can then equip to show all unfound collectibles on the map.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
