Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides How to make a clan in Destiny 2, and where to go from there By Gabe Gurwin and Joseph Yaden Close Although the majority of content in Destiny 2 is playable whether or not you're playing solo, you’re going to want to join a clan to get the most out of Bungie’s latest shooter. In Destiny 2 , clans not only give you a convenient and easy way to communicate with your friends and organize for raids, but they also offer additional rewards as your clan progresses through various challenges and raises its level. If you're clueless about how to make a clan in Destiny 2 , the detailed guide below will provide you with everything you need to know.
Creating a clan Finding clan members Chat with your clan Make it your own Earn rewards Level up your clan Guided games and how to join them Difficulty Duration What You Need Internet connection Needless to say, there's a lot going on in Destiny 2.
 Lucky for you, we've also put together a detailed beginner's guide , weapons guide , and guide to leveling.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Creating a clan If you already have a group of players ready to play together in Destiny 2 , then you’re ready to create your own clan on Bungie’s website. Thankfully, it’s a remarkably easy process that should only take a few minutes. Do keep in mind that you'll have to have a Bungie.net account before creating a clan.
Step 1: First, head to the official clan creation page , and scroll to the bottom. You’ll see a few different entry fields here, and you'll fill in info like your clan's name and motto. This can help introduce your clan to players who might not know you personally. The shorthand section is generally an abbreviation of your clan’s name that will appear next to your username, similar to the clan tags seen in other shooters like Call of Duty: Warzone.
Step 2: Once you’ve picked your name and motto, hit the button at the bottom of the page to go to your clan’s main menu in your internet browser. If you're using the Destiny Companion app , you’ll get the same information, but it will be split among a few different pages. To view your clan information, click Clan at the bottom of the app.
Bungie plots Destiny 2: The Final Shape overhaul in wake of mass layoffs All TV locations in Alan Wake 2 The best weapon upgrades in Alan Wake 2 Step 3: Now you’re going to want players to populate your clan. You can always send them a clan invitation while playing Destiny 2 , but to make the process a little easier, you can also send them a link to your profile page via a browser. To get there, go to your clan’s main menu and click Clan Profile on the left side of the screen.
Step 4: Anyone with the link will see an option on this page to send a join request. With the default clan settings, the clan leader or an administrator will have to confirm the request in order for the new player to join. You can also invite users from the mobile app. To do so, tap on the Clan , followed by Clan Settings.
 Under the Player Management section, tap on Invites.
 Here, you will see an option to invite any player you want, including those on your PlayStation Network or Xbox Live friends list. You can create a clan with up to 100 players.
Finding clan members If you're a solo player or don't know anyone who plays Destiny 2 , there are a few ways to recruit other players. You can use Guided Games to find friends (which we'll cover below), or you can use various resources online to pair up with other Guardians. Here are some great ways to find players: Destiny clan finder Bungie's Clan recruitment Destiny 2 Discord Destiny 2 clans: The 100 Image used with permission by copyright holder Chat with your clan You’ll want to use a headset or camera in order to talk to your clanmates while playing Destiny 2 , but when you’re preparing for a raid or scheduling activities for the week, you can also make use of Bungie’s built-in online chat feature.
Step 1: Just click Clan Chat on the left side of your clan management page within a browser, and you’ll be able to talk to everyone in the group and even turn on notifications so you don’t miss any messages. For larger clans, there are even administrator-only and fireteam options, so you can keep relevant information organized more clearly.
Step 2: You can also organize a clan forum in the companion app. To create a thread in the forum, click your clan’s banner and tap the three dots in the top right. From here, you'll see an option to create a Private clan forum. Then hit the pencil icon in the upper-right corner to create either a New Topic or New Recruitment Topic.
 Here, you can add polls, ideas, and even links to YouTube videos. A tag option also lets you better organize threads.
Make it your own Now that you've created your clan, you need to make it stand out from the rest of the pack in order to attract new members.
Step 1: The first thing you'll need is an awesome banner. Your flag will be visible for players to see, giving them an easy way to recognize the clan as they make their way throughout the game, and Bungie gives players a robust set of creation tools to make it perfect. These are usable in both the mobile app and in an internet browser — each platform gives you the same set of options — but we found the browser to be painfully slow.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: The tools allow you to pick a banner emblem, emblem foreground, background colors, extra banner details, and an additional banner and detail color. The possibilities aren’t endless, but they do allow you to get creative. In order to start earning extra clan rewards once you’ve chosen your preferred colors, be sure to talk to Suraya Hawthorne on the Farm (or at The Tower after completing the game). She’ll provide your clan banner inventory item, which levels up as your clan completes certain activities.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Earn rewards The best part about joining a clan is that it provides you with more loot. Clans earn special "Clan Engrams," which give you new weapons and/or armor for completing many of the activities you were already going to do in Destiny 2.
 At the top of your clan’s profile, next to your banner, you’ll see a section with four icons underneath. These represent the rewards you and your clan can earn. You can earn these rewards each week for completing four of the game's toughest challenges: Completing the Nightfall Strike with your clan Completing Trials of the Nine with your clan Completing the Leviathan Raid with your clan Participating in the Crucible with your clan At least half of the players in your fireteam must be members of your clan for it to count toward your reward, however. These rewards can also only be claimed once per week, and only one character per account can use them, so you won’t be able to trick out your Titan, Warlock, and Hunter all at once.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Level up your clan The clan leveling system has been changed with the launch of Destiny 2: Forsaken.
 Rather than completing milestones to earn XP and level up your clan as you did in the vanilla version of Destiny 2 , you now must visit the character Hawthorne and complete her challenges. They range from completing certain Raids to finishing bounties. Keep in mind that these challenges change over time.
Step 1: At the level 50 cap, the new challenges can only be completed with a Fireteam, meaning you will have to be with your clan-mates in order to complete them. Previously, you could effectively work toward the goal while rarely interacting with your clan directly.
Step 2: You can earn up to 5,000 XP per week with each character, but do note that your Fireteam must consist of at least 50% of your clan members in order to make progress toward your clan's level.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Guided games and how to join them Not everyone is interested in committing to a clan, but they still want to take part in high-level endgame content, including raids. Your clan can help those players by letting them join your team in a “Guided Game.” The system was initially only available to a limited number of players but has since opened up to all players and allows you to find extra players for raids and Nightfall strikes. Clans offer themselves as guides for the mission, and the two sides are matched up to form one complete fireteam.
This also means that your clan can still complete a raid, even if you have fewer than six members. A special “Oathkeeper's Score" will be given to your clan for these activities, which lets seekers know if your clan typically sticks it out with newcomers until they complete a mission. Should you work particularly well with the new players, you can add them to your clan to act as guides for future missions.
Step 1: Wait times tend to be lengthier depending on which role you’re choosing, but joining a Guided Game is incredibly simple. To join a Guided Game for a Nightfall strike, head to your Destinations tab (hold the touchpad on PlayStation) and then select the Strikes option in the top-left corner. From there, scroll to the right, and you’ll see a tab for Guided Games.
Step 2: You do have to progress enough through the story for this feature to be made available. You can also use Guided Games for Raids.
Step 3: If you're a person who is already affiliated with a two-member group, you can click the Guide button. After you select this, a pledge will appear on your screen. Once you officially accept the oath, the game will automatically pair you with a fellow user.
Step 4: You'll soon find that it's a bit more complicated if you're interested in starting raids because you must discover and pair your group with other users. If you want to do this, you can do so by navigating to the destination page. Once you're at this point, search for the raid choice (you should see this at the top of the page). If you notice a small Guided Games badge, you're definitely in the right area.
Step 5: You'll have to boost your power level to 280 for first-year content if you want a chance at becoming a Guide as a beginner. We also want to point out that at least half of the players in your gang must already be clan members. If you're a person who'd much rather be a seeker, you can achieve this by getting to a power level of 260. Players can begin looking for an available position right away, but remember that it might take a little time and effort before you find one.
Editors' Recommendations The best development nodes to unlock in Cities Skylines 2 All Lunchbox locations in Alan Wake 2 All Word of Power locations in Alan Wake 2 Destiny 2 studio Bungie hit by layoffs, internal game delays All nursery rhyme solutions in Alan Wake 2 How-To Destiny 2 How-To Guides Gaming While the first Alan Wake game certainly had plenty of scares and horror in it, the mechanics were not as strictly of the survival horror variety. Alan Wake 2 has gone fully in this direction, however, with a much darker tone, disturbing imagery, and restrictive combat mechanics that sustain the tension when The Taken attack.
Aside from limited ammo, low health, and tough enemies to bring down, a key aspect of survival horror games is an inventory system. The first game let you hold essentially as much ammo, batteries, and weapons as you wanted in each chapter, but the sequel introduces a grid system that will look familiar to Resident Evil fans. Just like Resident Evil, your inventory starts off quite small, but you can see there is plenty of space for it to grow. There are specific items hidden in and around Bright Falls that can let you expand your carrying capacity, but many are well hidden in dark corners. Here are the locations of every inventory upgrade in Alan Wake 2.
All inventory upgrades Gaming FBI agent Saga Anderson and her partner, Alex Casey, are called into Bright Falls to investigate a murder committed by a strange group calling themselves the Cult of the Trees. These dangerous cultists are your main enemy in Alan Wake 2, and they put up quite a fight despite mostly using basic tools as weapons. They seem mindless and primitive, but the fact that they have a series of Cultist Stashes hidden all around the world suggests otherwise. These treasure troves are very well hidden, and they're protected with a small puzzle to try and prevent those who may stumble upon one from grabbing all the goodies inside. You'll find yourself short on supplies essentially all the time in Alan Wake 2, so scooping up some extra ammo and batteries is always welcome. Here is where you can find all the Cultist Stashes in Alan Wake 2 and how to open them.
All Cultist Stash locations There are a total of 21 Cultist Stashes to find and unlock in Alan Wake 2. Each zone has its own set to find, and they all have different puzzles you need to solve to open them. None are missable, but some can't be obtained until you make story progress or get specific tools.
Bright Falls Cult Stashes The first Cult Stash you can find comes as soon as you reach the town of Bright Falls for the first time. Instead of going straight to your destination down the block, turn around and head toward the dead end. Behind the truck will be a big locked box. To open this one, all you need to do is play a little game of Simon Says. The keypad will flash three buttons in a sequence that you simply need to repeat to open the box and grab the loot.
Gaming Dr. Connors, aka The Lizard, is forced back into his reptile state after Kraven injects him with his old serum in Marvel's Spider-Man 2. This would be bad enough, but he's also the only one who knows the truth about the symbiote and how to potentially get it off of Peter. Before that can happen, you need to track him down and inject him with the cure, and your search begins at his home in Queens. While exploring Connors' home, you discover that he had his own laboratory built underneath it for his experiments. Naturally, he wanted to keep this secret and put a passcode on the entrance. There's a small puzzle to uncover the code, and this isn't a puzzle you can skip. Here's how to open the lab.
How to open the Lizard's lab After exploring Connors' home and finding the panel to the lab, you will see a screen with four colored panels with one to four dots on each in order. Each one plays a tone, so the code is asking you to find the right musical tone. The clue here is the sticker of the barn on the upper right. If you visited the baby's room on the upper floor, you will have heard the Old MacDonald song when interacting with a toy in the room. That's the tone you need to recreate. The correct order to press the keys is 4,4,4,1.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
