Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Gaming Guides How to stream on Twitch from a PC, Mac, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation, or Xbox By Gabe Gurwin , Joshua Hawkins and Joseph Yaden Close Have your favorite Twitch gamers inspired you to start a channel of your own? Playing popular games online is a great way to make friends and interact with people who have similar interests, but the tricky part is setting it up for the first time.
Creating a Twitch account Streaming from Windows or MacOS Streaming from a PlayStation 5 Streaming from Xbox Series X/S Streaming from Nintendo Switch Streaming from PlayStation 4 Streaming from Xbox One Difficulty Duration What You Need Internet connection Game of your choosing Twitch account Streaming on Twitch can require a little bit of effort, and you’ll need to make sure you have all the right software and equipment before you begin. In this guide, we'll walk you through streaming on a PS4 , PS5 , Xbox One , Xbox Series X/S , Windows PC, Nintendo Switch.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Creating a Twitch account Before you begin streaming your gameplay, you’re going to need to create a Twitch account. Navigate to Twitch's official website, click the purple Sign Up link in the upper-right corner, and enter your desired login credentials before clicking the purple Sign Up button at the bottom. Afterward, click your username in the top-right corner.
Before you start streaming, head over to the Twitch community guidelines page to read up on rule violations. These include promoting racist, homophobic, and ageist views, as well as making disparaging remarks about military veterans and those with disabilities. Nudity on stream is also forbidden, and you are expected to do your best to prevent your viewers from engaging in hateful speech and harassment, as well.
Streaming from Windows or MacOS Streaming games from your PC or Mac is trickier than streaming from an Xbox or PlayStation , as most systems don’t come with any sort of built-in software to get you started. There are subscription-based products like XSplit if you want control over every aspect of your broadcast, but if you’re just learning the basics of streaming, we recommend downloading Open Broadcaster Software (OBS). The software is completely free, usable with both Windows and MacOS, and endorsed by Twitch. If you're just wanting to get started streaming with the least amount of setup, then the Twitch Studio app is another great choice. However, this application is still in beta and is only available on Windows.
For the purpose of this guide, we'll be focusing on how to stream to Twitch from Windows and MacOS using OBS, as it offers an easy way to stream without a bunch of extra fluff.
Step 1: Download OBS Downloading OBS couldn’t be simpler. To begin, click on your username in the main Twitch interface and hit the Creator Dashboard link. An update to Twitch changed how things work, so you'll find yourself staring at a page that looks like this: Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Go ahead and locate the three bars in the top-left corner of the screen. Click this drop-down menu to show a list of other options you can choose from. You'll want to click on the Streaming Tools option. This will take you to a page with several download links to various streaming applications like OBS. Find OBS in the list and click Download, or head to the official website here.
 Once on the OBS website, choose the version of OBS that you want to download. You can choose from Windows, Mac, and Linux.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Sony’s new PlayStation earbuds are a perfect match — for my Nintendo Switch Best video game deals: PlayStation 5, Xbox S and X, Nintendo Switch PC classic Quake II is now on Xbox, PlayStation, and Nintendo Switch Step 3: Setting up to stream There are all kinds of guides out there about how to get the most out of OBS, however, there are only a few things you'll need to worry about if you're just getting started. The only options you really need to focus on are your video bit rate, audio bit rate, and your encoder.
Click on the Output tab after clicking on Settings in OBS, and ensure that your video bitrate is set to about 2,500. This should allow you to stream content at 720p, but you can increase this number if you want to broadcast at a higher resolution. If you want to stream at 720p at 60FPS, then it's probably worth it to go ahead and bump your bit rate up to at least 3,500. Audio bit rate should be set at 128 regardless of your resolution, though you can also lower this if your internet speeds are less than ideal. If you're running an Nvidia graphics card from the past couple of years, you can make use of the built-in NVENC encoder. Otherwise, you'll want to stick with OBS' default software x264 encoder. Make sure you hit Apply to confirm the changes.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Enter your stream key Return to Twitch’s website and go back to the creator dashboard. Click on Preferences and then select the Channel option from the drop-down menu. This will take you to a page with your Primary Stream Key , as well as other options. Find the stream key area, and then press the copy button next to it. If your stream key gets shared somewhere it shouldn't, you can always reset it here, too. Go ahead and enter your stream key into OBS by clicking Settings in the bottom right, followed by Stream , and you'll see where to enter the key. Be sure to click Apply to make the changes.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: Plug in your microphone and set up your game Now it's time to set up the audio devices for your stream. Take a look at the Audio Mixer area in OBS. It should already have at least the volume bar set up for your desktop. If it doesn't, you can add it manually following the same instructions you're going to use to add your microphone. In OBS, locate the Settings button in the bottom-right area of the application.
Clicking this will open up your settings window. Go ahead and navigate down to the Audio tab. Here you can add or remove audio devices as needed. Make sure that Desktop Audio is set to the correct piece of hardware and then locate the Mic/Aux audio options. You can set your microphone here. When you've selected your mic and desktop audio, return to the main OBS window and you should see your audio coming through in the mixer on the bottom.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 6: Originally, OBS didn't offer native support for Mac desktop audio. This issue has been resolved with updates, though.
Next, open the game you want to stream and take a look at the Sources menu towards the bottom of OBS. Find the + button at the bottom of the Sources area and press it. It should pull up a list of items. The easiest way to capture gameplay is to use the Display Capture option. This allows you to capture an entire desktop screen. However, it also means that any sensitive information on that screen could be shared, so be careful when using this option. If you want to just capture the game, you can select the Game Capture option. It should be noted, though, that some games -- especially those running on Vulkan -- won't work correctly with OBS' built-in game capture system.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 7: Stream! That’s all there is to it! Hit the Start Streaming button in the main OBS screen and you’ll instantly begin broadcasting from your Twitch account. When you’re done, just hit Stop Streaming.
Unsplash Streaming from a PlayStation 5 Streaming on PS5 is simple since you don't need any external devices or software. Though, having a capture card and a PC/laptop setup can be good for bypassing certain blocked scenes or if your PS5 crashes. But for the purposes of this guide, we'll be covering the simple method.
Step 1: Connect your Twitch account to your PS5 First, you'll want to connect your Twitch account to your PS5 system. Click on the Settings menu on your PS5 and select Users > Accounts > Link > Other Services.
Step 2: Choose Twitch and then either scan the QR code or visit Twitch.tv/activate to link the account to your PS5.
Step 3: Once they're linked, launch into a game and then press the Create button on your DualSense controller.
Step 4: Then, select Broadcast.
Step 5: When you select Go Live , a Now Broadcasting message will appear on your screen, indicating that you're streaming.
Step 6: To stop streaming, press the Create button on your DualSense once again, and then select the Broadcast menu. Press Stop Broadcast to end the stream.
Photo by Streaming from Xbox Series X/S You're able to Twitch stream directly from the Xbox Series X , though there are a few steps you'll need to take to get things going. Just like the PS5, you can stream using a capture card, but we'll be focusing on streaming directly from the system without the need for external software or devices.
Step 1: First, you need to download the Twitch app within the Xbox Series X/S system. Head to the store by clicking My Games & Apps > Apps > Microsoft Store.
 Use the Search function to find Twitch and download it for free.
Step 2: Sign in to your Twitch account and you'll be given a code to link to your Xbox system. Visit twitch.tv/activate and input the code here.
Step 3: Launch into the Twitch app on your Xbox and you'll be able to customize your stream to your liking by selecting the Broadcast option.
Step 4: Once everything is to your liking, press the Start Streaming button to begin your stream. You can use the Twitch app on iOS and Android to interact with the chat, which is a nice feature.
Step 5: To stop the stream, go back into the Twitch app on the Xbox Series X and click Broadcast > End Stream.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Streaming from Nintendo Switch Streaming on Nintendo Switch is a little trickier, as you'll need a capture card, dock (the Switch Lite does not support capture cards), and laptop or PC to get things going.
Step 1: Connect your capture card to your Switch dock and make sure it's hooked up to the TV. You'll need one HDMI cable going into the capture card and then a second one connected to your TV or monitor.
Step 2: Once your capture card is connected to the Switch and your PC/laptop, launch OBS and make sure to link the streaming platform -- Twitch -- through the Settings menu.
Step 3: From here, make sure you have a Twitch account. If you don't, visit Twitch.tv and create an account by accessing the Creator Dashboard in the top right-hand corner.
Step 4: Click on Settings > Stream > Show underneath Primary Stream Key.
 Copy this and open up OBS.
Step 5: Select File and then Settings within OBS.
Step 6: Then click Streaming and make sure you choose Twitch as your service.
Step 7: Paste your Stream Key here and make sure you click Apply.
Step 8: Select Start Streaming and if you go back to Twitch, you should see your footage in the Stream Manager area.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Streaming from PlayStation 4 The process for streaming to Twitch from a PS4 console is simple. You don’t have to use any outside software, and you can even use a PlayStation camera as a microphone and “facecam” for your broadcasts! If you have a PlayStation Camera and want to use it, consider plugging it in. Just ensure your camera’s microphone isn’t muted from the quick menu on your console, otherwise, you won't be able to use it with your stream.
Step 1: Play a game Unlike with Windows and MacOS, you should open whatever game you plan on streaming before changing any broadcast settings. Once you've launched the game, press the Share button next to the touchpad on your PS4 DualShock 4 controller to open up your broadcast settings.
Step 2: Change settings and start streaming! From here, select Broadcast Gameplay and you’ll be given an option to stream via three different streaming services.
 Select Twitch, and the service will provide you with a streaming key. Then, go to twitch.tv/activate and enter the key. Your PS4 will be ready to start streaming in a few moments, but let’s change a few more settings first.
From the Broadcast Gameplay menu, you can change the title of your stream, the quality, and whether you want to use your camera and/or microphone. Once you’re satisfied with your settings, hit Start Broadcasting and show your skills to the world! Anthony/Pexels Streaming from Xbox One Streaming with Twitch on an Xbox One is just about as easy as it is on a PS4. There are a few technical issues that require you to have one additional piece of equipment.
If you want to have a “facecam,” legacy Xbox One owners can use the Xbox Kinect.
 (Technically, the Xbox One supports all USB webcams, but only the Kinect is compatible with the Xbox One’s Twitch app). If you use Xbox Kinect to do this, make sure to pair it with a headset to record your voice. The Kinect’s microphone tends to cut out intermittently when streaming via Twitch. This can be easily remedied by having a headset plugged in. Then the stream will use that mic instead of the one on the Kinect. Unfortunately, the camera and its associated adapter have are no longer made. So if you do not have a Kinect, you’ll have to stick to voice only.
Step 1: Play a game Just as you would with your PS4, load up a game on your Xbox One prior to starting your stream. Twitch will immediately detect the game when it starts the stream, which will make it more discoverable for potential audience members.
After this, install and open the Twitch app and sign in with your credentials. Once you finish this step, you'll receive a unique stream key to gain access. Before you can get in, you have to activate this key at twitch.tv/activate on either your mobile device or computer.
Step 2: Change settings and start streaming! You can easily edit your stream's title and quality level before you go live if you're using an Xbox One. It's also possible to move your Kinect's camera display to one of the corners of the screen. Although you won't see this much on a regular TV, your viewers will still be able to see it.
Finally, select Start Broadcast to start streaming your gameplay to your viewers. There will be a ticker at the bottom of your screen that displays how many viewers are watching. Once you start using the Xbox One's Snap feature, you can access Twitch at any time by keeping it on the side of your screen. This feature also lets you watch your fans interact in real-time.
Remember that the majority of games will not allow you to mute yourself while in the game without muting everything. A simple thing you can do to avoid this is to assemble an Xbox Live party of one (just you as the sole member). Doing so will stop players from hearing what you say. Party chats stream in real-time, so it's crucial to inform players if you want them to be part of a stream.
Editors' Recommendations The best racing wheel and pedal Black Friday deals for PC, Xbox and PlayStation 70+ Nintendo Switch games are discounted at Best Buy — from $16 PlayStation Portal: release date, price, specs, and more How to connect a Nintendo Switch controller to your PC or Mac How to live stream on Nintendo Switch Computing How-To How-To Guides PC Gaming Streaming Services Gaming If there’s one video game presentation happening over the next week that has the most to prove, it’s the Xbox Games Showcase. Despite a strong start to the year with Hi-Fi Rush and a solid Developer Direct showcase, Microsoft’s gaming branch has floundered in recent months because of struggles with its acquisition of Activision Blizzard and the rocky launch of Redfall. With the Xbox Games Showcase and Starfield Direct Double Feature, Microsoft must reconfirm its commitment to gaming and to releasing high-quality first-party exclusives.
That said, Xbox is in an excellent position to do just that because of Sony’s underwhelming May showcase. As the first major gaming presentation of the summer, Sony had the chance to “win” the whole game reveal season early with its PlayStation Showcase. Ultimately, that live stream proved disappointing because of its focus on CGI reveal trailers and live service games.
Gaming If you've been waiting around for some awesome video game deals this Memorial Day sale season, you will love what CDKeys has to offer. There are some great discounts on the latest games as well as membership services for all the games consoles and PCs out there. We recommend hitting the button below to see exactly what's out there right now, but we're also going to take a few moments to highlight some choice cuts. It's worth remembering that CDKeys is pretty aggressive with blocking certain locations and that almost certainly includes yours.
What to shop for in the CDKeys sale There's a lot to check out as part of CDKeys' sale. Whether you're an Xbox owner, PlayStation fan, Switch lover, or avid PC gamer, there are some great options. One highlight is being able to buy Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II Cross-Gen Bundle for Xbox One and Xbox Series X|S for $40. Its multiplayer continues to be a huge hit so you're sure to gain plenty of hours of fun here. Just make sure you have a UK account set up on your Xbox to use the code.
Gaming It’s that time of the year again when industry insiders are teasing that a big PlayStation Showcase will happen around June. A third-party focused State of Play happened in 2022, but now Video Games Chronicle’s Andy Robinson and Giant Bomb’s Jeff Grubb are both suggesting that a more first-party oriented "Showcase" could be on the way sometime during the next month, potentially during the week of May 25.
PlayStation has had a rough start to 2023, with console exclusive Forspoken garnering mixed reviews, the PlayStation VR2 impressing critics while underperforming in sales, and The Last of Us Part 1’s PC port being broken at launch. With only Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 confirmed to be on the horizon for 2023, Sony has a lot to prove during its next showcase. There are three specific things I need to see from Sony if that PlayStation Showcase does come to fruition.
Give PSVR2 purpose The PlayStation VR2 is an impressive piece of virtual reality technology, but it lacks killer apps outside of Horizon: Call of the Mountain. New game releases for the headset have been slow since its February 2022 launch, which is likely why the $550 headset has underperformed. Sony has opted to mainly relegate PSVR2 to State of Plays or PlayStation Blog posts, but it needs to revitalize excitement for the platform by giving some of its games a spotlight in a big PlayStation Showcase.
Hopefully, there’s more on the way in terms of new AAA VR exclusives from first-party studios, as well as much-demanded ports like Half-Life: Alyx. Already announced PSVR2 games like Journey to Foundation and Synapse could also use release dates. A PlayStation Showcase is the perfect time for Sony to put out a clear road map for PSVR2’s future game library, just as the September 2021 PlayStation did for PS5. Give me a reason to strap on that headset yet again.
Flesh out the system’s 2023 exclusives lineup PS5 needs a strong lineup for this fall as well. With the exception of Marvel’s Spider-Man 2, things look pretty barren for PS5 this year after the launch of Final Fantasy XVI. Several previously announced PS5 games still lack concrete release dates and could arrive in the second half of this year. It’d be nice to get a clearer picture of Sony’s PS5 game lineup for the rest of the year; hopefully, it includes titles like Stellar Blade, the Silent Hill 2 remake, Lost Soul Aside, Death Stranding 2, and Final Fantasy VII Rebirth.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
