Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Gaming Guides How to upgrade your PS4 hard drive By Gabe Gurwin Close As convenient as solid-state drives (SSDs) are to work with, the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 4 Pro never got the memo. If you’re looking to upgrade the console's mechanical hard drive with an SSD, you’ll need to do things the old-fashioned way.
SSDs vs. mechanical hard drives How to install an SSD in a PlayStation 4 How to install an SSD in a PlayStation 4 Pro How to use an external hard drive with PS4 and PS4 Pro Difficulty Duration What You Need PS4/PS4 Pro A 2.5-inch SSD (larger than 160GB and no more than 9.5mm thick) An adjustable screwdriver 2 USB flash drives SSDs vs. mechanical hard drives Before we swapped out the PS4’s hard drive with an SSD, we tested the hard drive that the system came with by measuring the amount of time the PS4 needed to boot up to the screen where the OS asks you to press the PS button on your controller. We tested it twice and got times of 27 seconds and 24.9 seconds.
Once we replaced the PS4’s stock hard drive with an SSD, we ran the boot tests again and got boot times of 19.2 and 19.4 seconds with the SSD in there. So, boot-up is roughly 5-8 seconds faster with an SSD than with the mechanical hard drive that the PlayStation 4 ships with.
If you don’t think that’s significant, remember that loading save games, levels, and more will also get substantially faster. Over time, those shaved seconds will make your PS4 feel a lot faster.
How to install an SSD in a PlayStation 4 Be sure to save your save game files to the second USB flash drive by going to the PS4’s Settings menu.
Step 1: From the Settings menu on the PS4 home screen, go to Application Saved Data Management , then Saved Data in System Storage.
Step 2: Select Copy to USB Storage Device to save your files to your second USB flash drive.
If you’re a PlayStation Plus subscriber, you can upload your game saves to the cloud instead — you’ll just need to download them once you have your new drive installed.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to get Hero Tokens in Spider-Man 2 How to set up multiple monitors for PC gaming How to get Plucked Eyeballs in Lords of the Fallen and where to donate them Step 3: Place the powered-off, unplugged PlayStation 4 on a flat, secure surface and press down on the glossy, black side of the top panel. With the system’s front facing you, slide the panel leftward. It should slide right off; no screwdriver needed.
Step 4: Remove the screw at the very front of the PS4, which keeps the hard drive bay locked down.
It’s easy to identify because it wears the same circle, X, square, and triangle buttons found on the PlayStation 4’s controller. It’s a Phillips screw, but you may need a smaller-than-usual bit to get it out without stripping it.
Step 5: Pull the hard-drive dock toward you, and remove the PS4’s hard drive. It should slide right out.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 6: Once you pull out the hard drive, you’ll find that it’s still guarded by a metal cage that’s locked down by four black screws. These screws are located on the sides of this cage, with two sitting on each side. Unscrew them with a standard Phillips bit.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 7: Slide the PS4 hard drive out of the cage.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 8: Place your 2.5-inch SSD into the cage, and orient it the same way that the PS4’s original drive was.
For reference, we stacked the PS4 hard drive and our SSD on top of one another in the below image. Notice how each drive’s back ports look exactly the same, and are in the same places.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 9: Screw the SSD into the cage with the four black screws that you removed previously.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 10: Slide the hard-drive cage back into the PS4’s hard-drive bay.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 11: Lock the PS4’s hard-drive bay with the same screw you removed to unlock it, using a small Phillips bit.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 12: Slide the PS4’s top panel back onto the system. Then, hook your PS4 back up, but do not turn it back on yet. This is where your other USB flash drive comes in.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 13: Using a computer, download the latest PS4 operating system update file by visiting Sony and clicking the Download Now link. This will ensure you get the latest version.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 14: Plug the other USB flash drive into your computer. Open it, and create a folder on the drive named PS4.
 Then, open the PS4 folder and create another folder within PS4 named UPDATE.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 15: Once you finish downloading the PS4 OS update file (which is called PS4UPDATE.PUP ), drag it over to your flash drive, and place it in the UPDATE folder. Remember, the UPDATE folder needs to be inside the PS4 folder on your flash drive in order for this process to work.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 16: Eject your flash drive from your computer safely, and plug it into one of your PS4′s front USB ports. These are the same ports that you can use to plug in your DualShock 4 controller.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 17: Press and hold your PS4’s power button for 7 to 10 seconds until you hear two beeps. This will force it to boot into Safe Mode.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 18: Once you’re at the PS4’s Safe Mode menu, select the Initialize PS4 (Reinstall System Software) option, which should be seventh on the list from the top of the screen.
Your PS4 will scan the flash drive you plugged in for the update file that you downloaded using your computer. It may take 20 or 30 seconds, but the next screen that comes up will take you through some simple instructions on how to install the PS4’s operating system onto the SSD you just put in the console.
Step 19: This part of the process isn’t complicated at all; you’ll just have to press the X button on your PS4 controller a few times.
Once the PS4 OS is installed, you’ll be good to go! Step 20: Copy the save-game files that you saved to your other flash drive back to PS4’s new SSD. Start by plugging in that USB flash drive into your PS4.
Step 21: Open the console’s Settings menu from the PS4's home screen.
Step 22: Select Application Saved Data Management , then Saved Data on USB Storage Device.
Step 23: Finally, hit Copy to System Storage.
How to install an SSD in a PlayStation 4 Pro Swapping out the hard drive on the PlayStation 4 Pro is very similar to doing so with the base model, albeit with a few minor differences. Luckily, those changes actually make the process easier. Plus, you can take advantage of SATA III speeds, so long as you’re armed with the proper equipment. You can check our SATA guide if you’re interested in more information. The steps for doing this with the PlayStation 4’s newer “Slim” model are very similar, but if you need images to help, PlayStation has information for that specific system on its website.
To install a new hard drive on a PS4 Pro, you still need a Phillips-head screwdriver, a pair of USB flash drives, and a 2.5-inch SSD larger than 160GB, and up to 9.5mm thick. Remember that if you have a PlayStation Plus account, you can back up your save data in the cloud, which can take the place of one of the two flash drives.
Step 1: Set the PS4 Pro on its back on a flat, steady surface so that the rubberized PlayStation-branded grips on its underside are facing up.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Locate the plastic tab immediately to the left of the Ethernet port. Pull the plastic tag off with your fingers or with a small knife. You’ll see a metal hard-drive caddy, held into place by a single screw.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: Unscrew the drive with your Phillips-head, then slide it out toward you by tightly gripping it on its sides.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Take the 1TB onboard hard drive out of its caddy by unscrewing the four screws located on the right and left sides connecting the drive to the drive caddy. Pay close attention to the orientation of the hard drive; you’ll want to install your SSD at the same angle.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: With the hard drive removed from the caddy, it’s time to grab your SSD. Insert the SSD into the caddie the same orientation as the original hard drive, with the connectors — and presumably logo — facing up.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 6: Once it’s seated in the caddy, screw the SSD in using the same Phillips-head screwdriver used to eject the caddy from the PS4 Pro.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 7: You may need to hold the SSD up a little to align the screws with both the holes on the caddy and the holes on the SSD itself. For the best results, start with two screws positioned diagonally from one another.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 8: Slide the drive caddy back into the PS4 Pro, the same way it came out. Next, you’ll want to maneuver the large screw (the first one you took out) back into place.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 9: Replace the plastic cover on top of the metal caddy. This may take some fiddling, but you’ll eventually notice the tag snaps back into place with a little force.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 10: The SSD has now been installed, but don’t get too excited just yet: You still need to initialize the PS4 Pro’s firmware.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 11: Using a computer, download the latest PS4 operating system update file by visiting Sony and clicking the Download Now link. This will ensure you get the latest version.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 12: Plug your other USB flash drive into your computer. Open it, and create a folder on the drive named PS4.
 Then, open the PS4 folder , and create another folder in there named UPDATE.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 13: Once you finish downloading the PS4 OS update file (which is called PS4UPDATE.PUP ), drag it over to your flash drive and place it in the UPDATE folder. Remember, the UPDATE folder needs to be inside the PS4 folder on your flash drive in order for this process to work.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 14: Eject your flash drive from your computer safely, and plug it into one of your PS4′s front USB ports. These are the same ports that you can plug your DualShock 4 controller into.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 15: Press and hold your PS4’s power button for 7 to 10 seconds until you hear two beeps. This will force it to boot into Safe Mode.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 16: Once you’re at the PS4’s Safe Mode menu, select the Initialize PS4 (Reinstall System Software) option.
Your PS4 will scan the flash drive you plugged in for the update file that you downloaded using your computer. It may take 20 or 30 seconds, but the next screen that comes up will take you through some simple instructions on how to install the PS4’s operating system onto the SSD you just put in the console. This part of the process isn’t complicated at all; you’ll just have to press the X button on your PS4 controller a few times.
Step 17: To upload your save-game files, plug in the USB flash drive with your save files into the front of your PS4.
Step 18: Open the console’s Settings menu.
Step 19: Go to Application Saved Data Management , then Saved Data on USB Storage Device.
Step 20: Select Copy to System Storage , and your data will reinstall.
How to use an external hard drive with PS4 and PS4 Pro Adding to your PS4’s storage capacity via an external hard drive is another option. Firmware update 4.5.0, which came out in early 2017, made it possible. The PS4 supports external hard drives — both desktop and portable drives — ranging between 250GB and 8TB. When you plug an external drive into your PS4 via USB, you have to format it. If you have files on the unit already, you’ll need to back them up. Or you could use a new drive for your PS4. The catch is that after formatting, you can only use the external drive with your PlayStation.
An unfortunate part of using an external drive to increase your PS4’s storage is that the drive uses up a USB port. The good thing is, you get the double perk of using both system storage and hard drive space. Just know that you’ll always need to keep the drive plugged in while the system is on. If you remove it, you risk corrupting the data.
Step 1: After you’ve finished setting up the initial equipment requirements for your device, you have the chance to direct where you’d like the application to install. To do this, open up Settings on the PS4's home screen.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Navigate to Storage.
Step 3: Press the Options button on your controller.
Step 4: From there, choose Move to Extended Storage or Move to System Storage.
Image used with permission by copyright holder We know it seems that swapping out your PS4’s hard drive takes a long time and a lot of work, but in the end, the ultimate results will be worth all the effort. This transfer will afford you faster load times in your games, so you won’t experience as much lagging.
Editors' Recommendations All suits in Spider-Man 2 and how to get them How to get tech parts in Spider-Man 2 Sims 4 cheats: all cheat codes for PC, Xbox, PS4, PS5, and more Add 1TB of storage to your PS5 with this SSD and save 40% Level up your gaming setup with this 32-inch 4K monitor and save $200 Computing How-To How-To Guides Sony Sony PlayStation Gaming With more and more games being digital-only releases, it isn't as easy as it once was to share your games. You can already get a digital-only PlayStation 5, and the rumored new model will also lack a disc drive by default. Thankfully, like the PlayStation 4, the PS5 includes a feature that allows you to share games. With a little know-how, you can share all the best PS5 games you own with a friend or family member. However, with every new console comes a new interface and system to navigate. Here’s what you need to know about gamesharing on the PS5.
Computing You don't need to build your own computer to get the best gaming PC. While that still provides the best value, brands like Lenovo, Alienware, Acer, and Origin have gotten fiercely competitive in the past few years, and these companies are producing some of the best gaming desktops you can buy.
Our top pick is Lenovo's Legion Tower 7i Gen 8. It comes with the latest CPU and GPU options from Intel and Nvidia, and it's reasonably priced, especially considering its excellent thermal management. Plus, we have over half a dozen other picks for different budgets and gaming needs that we identified through our extensive collection of desktop reviews.
Gaming As you progress through Resident Evil 4's Separate Ways DLC, you'll eventually need to help Luis score some ingredients for a fresh batch of medicine to aid in fending off the infection ailing both Leon and Ada. As you begin your quest to find the ingredients, you'll first have to solve a lithograph puzzle to open a door leading into a room filled with shields on the wall. In this room, you'll have to shoot specific shields in a specific order to open a cabinet revealing your first ingredient: red ink. Here's how to solve the shield wall puzzle.
How to solve the shield wall puzzle in Chapter 4 After solving the lithograph puzzle and opening the door, you'll enter an area where you can interact with a printing machine to get a piece of paper that hints at interacting with (shooting) the shields hanging all along the walls of the room. The problem is that, well, there are a lot of shields in this room. To find the correct shields, turn around from the printing machine and look at the fireplace along the wall behind you. To the left of this fireplace are the five shields from the picture that you printed.
You need to shoot three of these shields in the following order: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
