Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides The most underrated games of all time By Gabe Gurwin and Joseph Yaden Close There is a slew of fantastic games out there that get their fair share of recognition. Titles like Red Dead Redemption 2 , Resident Evil 2 , and The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild come to mind. But what about the games that arguably don’t get the recognition they deserve? These are games that maybe flew under the radar or didn’t sell as well as their publishers had hoped — leaving them mostly forgotten by the community.
Vampyr (PS4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PC) The Surge (PS4, Xbox One, PC) The Evil Within 2 (PS4, Xbox One, PC) Nex Machina (PS4, PC) Super Daryl Deluxe (PS4, Nintendo Switch, PC) Assassin’s Creed Syndicate (PS4, Xbox One, PC) Shadow of the Tomb Raider (PS4, Xbox One, PC) Plants vs. Zombies: Garden Warfare (PS3, Xbox 360, PS4, Xbox One, PC) Resident Evil: Revelations 2 (PS3, Xbox 360, PS4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PS Vita, PC) Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare (PS4, Xbox One, PC) The Crew 2 (PS4, Xbox One, PC) Rage 2 (PS4, Xbox One, PC) Sunset Overdrive (Xbox One, PC) Darksiders III (PS4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PC) Valiant Hearts: The Great War (PS3, Xbox 360, PS4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PC, iOS, Android) Blazing Chrome (PS4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PC) No Man’s Sky (PS4, Xbox One, PS5, Xbox Series X|S, PC) Knack 2 (PS4) Super Time Force (Xbox 360, PS4, Xbox One, PS Vita, PC) Middle-earth: Shadow of War (PS4, Xbox One, PC) The Punisher (PS2, Xbox, PC) Spec Ops: The Line (PS3, Xbox 360, PC) Mirror’s Edge (Xbox 360, PS3, PC) Einhänder (PS1) Wario Land 4 (GBA) Yakuza: Like a Dragon (PS4, Xbox One, PS5, Xbox Series X|S, PC) Immortals: Fenyx Rising (PS4, Xbox One, PS5, Xbox Series X|S, Nintendo Switch, PC) The Medium (PS5, Xbox Series X|S, PC) In this list, we’ll highlight some games that don’t get the credit they deserve — whether they feature an interesting gameplay mechanic, engaging story, or something else that makes them stand out. These are the most underrated games of all time, across multiple generations.
Recommended reading: The bestselling games of all time The bestselling consoles of all time The best superhero games of all time Vampyr (PS4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder Dontnod Entertainment did release an excellent sequel to its game Life is Strange , but the studio also had something else cooking that took us by surprise: Vampyr.
 Set just after World War I, the action-role-playing game stars a doctor who has just been transformed into a vampire and must decide between keeping his Hippocratic Oath and feeding on the living. Its world is filled with unique characters — almost all of whom can be sacrificed to make your character stronger. With supernatural abilities and an atmospheric take on London to explore, it’s enthralling despite its relatively low production values.
The best Mario games of all time, ranked PS Plus is getting an underrated RPG cult classic this month The PS5 games with the best graphics The Surge (PS4, Xbox One, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder Deck13 Interactive’s Lords of the Fallen was a pretty run-of-the-mill Souls-like, with a fantasy setting and little to separate it from similar clones. The studio took a very different direction, however, with The Surge , a science-fiction action-RPG is equal parts Bloodborne and Elysium.
 With a limb-targeting system, unique upgrades to an exo-suit, and industrial setting, it stood out from the competition and even streamlined some of the genre’s more frustrating mechanics. Its sequel was more widely appreciated, but the first game is definitely worth checking out for anyone looking for their next controller-breaking obsession.
The Evil Within 2 (PS4, Xbox One, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder Shinji Mikami directed one of the best survival-horror games of all time, Resident Evil 4 , and fans were eager for The Evil Within to see if he was capable of surpassing his masterpiece. The game wasn’t able to match the high standards of its predecessor, often feeling like it was retreading the same ground. However, its much weirder and more polished sequel The Evil Within 2 didn’t want to replicate past successes. Instead, it was a completely original and cerebral take on the genre with storytelling that matched its gameplay. Despite this, sales were very low, and it is unclear if developer Tango Gameworks will be given the chance for a third game.
Read our full The Evil Within 2 review Nex Machina (PS4, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder Developed in collaboration with legendary designer Eugene Jarvis, Housemarque’s Nex Machina might just be the best twin-stick arcade shooter ever made. It’s a relentlessly difficult game that controls like butter, with simple abilities and a huge number of enemies to defeat in order to get through each area and save the humans on the ground. When it comes time to fight a boss, things get quite hectic, and making it through the whole game without dying dozens of times is nearly impossible. Despite being the best game in the studio’s entire catalog, it sold poorly, ultimately leading to Housemarque declaring “arcade is dead” and attempting a comeback in the AAA space, instead. That’s a shame, as it risks losing what made it so special.
Super Daryl Deluxe (PS4, Nintendo Switch, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder Designed primarily by just two people, Super Daryl Deluxe is a Metroidvania game by way of Napoleon Dynamite.
 Set in a high school where the different classrooms lead to a fantastical world, the game stars the completely silent titular hero, who must venture into the unknown in order to prevent total chaos. The game’s strength lies not only in its gorgeous artwork and music, but its often-hilarious writing. It has jokes about everything from Georgia O’Keeffe to Genghis Khan, all told with a sharp wit and knack for wordplay.
Super Daryl Deluxe doesn’t try to reinvent what it means to be an action-platforming game, but it does deliver one fantastic take on the template.
Assassin’s Creed Syndicate (PS4, Xbox One, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder After the horrendously broken Assassin’s Creed Unity launched in 2014, expectations for the series’ future were at an all-time low, but Ubisoft managed to turn things around with Assassin’s Creed Syndicate.
 Going even further into the future — all the way to the industrial revolution in London — the stealth-action game stars two twin heroes and builds on the classic franchise tropes in new ways. Missions are less frustrating with fewer auto-fail conditions, combat is more challenging and refined, and the simple stealth mechanics are complemented by traversal options such as a grappling hook tool. It was overshadowed by the next year’s Assassin’s Creed Origins as the series became an RPG, but Syndicate is still underrated.
Shadow of the Tomb Raider (PS4, Xbox One, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder After launching Rise of the Tomb Raider in 2015, Crystal Dynamics passed off the development torch to Eidos Montreal for its sequel, and Shadow of the Tomb Raider delivered a darker, more personal, and extremely violent conclusion to Lara Croft’s origin story. Set in Latin American, primarily in Peru, the game delivered much of the same stealth and all-out action mixed with traversal we have come to expect from the series, and though it certainly didn’t reinvent the wheel, it was a satisfying way to wrap things up. Of course, there is always still room for another game, and despite the lower review scores compared to its predecessor, Shadow of the Tomb Raider proves that the series is anything but dead.
Read our full Shadow of the Tomb Raider review Plants vs. Zombies: Garden Warfare (PS3, Xbox 360, PS4, Xbox One, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder Electronic Arts and Dice have had mixed results with their first-person shooters this generation, ranging from the excellent Battlefield 1 to the underwhelming Star Wars: Battlefront reboot. One game that certainly surprised us, however, was Plants vs. Zombies: Garden Warfare , which made use of Dice’s Frostbite engine and was developed by PopCap Games. Taking the tower defense game and turning it into a team-based third-person multiplayer shooter shouldn’t have worked, but the different classes’ goofy abilities and a surprisingly engaging progression system helped to make it an excellent title that never got enough attention. Playing the Garden Ops defense mode with a friend or battling it out against other players never gets old.
Read our full Plants vs. Zombies: Garden Warfare review Resident Evil: Revelations 2 (PS3, Xbox 360, PS4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PS Vita, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder Resident Evil 2 and Resident Evil 7 both got plenty of acclaim this generation, but the spinoff horror game Resident Evil: Revelations 2 went relatively under the radar in comparison. Starring a mix of new and returning characters, including Resident Evil 2 ’s Claire Redfield, the game plays like a mix of the original series and the newer, more action-oriented entries. Rather than the doomed ship setting of the previous game, it finds our heroes on a secluded prison island, and they go up against some of the most terrifying enemies in franchise history.
Resident Evil: Revelations 2 lacks the production values of the more successful main games, but its old-school influences make it a must-play for horror fans.
Read our full Resident Evil: Revelations 2 review Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare (PS4, Xbox One, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder The Call of Duty game that players seem to have forgotten, with bigger titles like Black Ops 4 and Modern Warfare taking the spotlight, Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare was the first game that Sledgehammer Games took the lead on, but it does not have the growing pains one might expect. With a thrilling campaign that warns against the dangers of private military contractors, a vertical multiplayer component with exo-suits, and some of the best weapon handling and progression in the series to date, Advanced Warfare is an outstanding shooter. Perhaps the move further into the future was its undoing, as it will likely never get a sequel, but it’s a Call of Duty game done right.
Read our full Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare review The Crew 2 (PS4, Xbox One, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder Forza Horizon 4 is the best racing game available from the past generation, but that is no reason to knock Ubisoft’s own open-world games. After the underwhelming The Crew , which suffered from pretty abysmal driving physics and uninteresting world-building, the sequel pulled out all the stops. Cars, trucks, planes, dirt bikes, and even boats are all available as you venture across the United States and compete in races. The game is pretty enormous and has plenty of variety, and The Crew 2 ditches the seriousness of its predecessor for something that just lets you have fun.
 In a racing game like this, it’s definitely the right move.
Rage 2 (PS4, Xbox One, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder The first Rage was a very odd game for Id Software, in large part because it just felt so safe with its post-apocalyptic setting, brown and gray environments, and cookie-cutter combat. For the sequel no one really asked for, the studio partnered with Avalanche Studios of Mad Max and Just Cause fame and managed to deliver a completely different type of game. Still maintaining the vehicular combat of the original, Rage 2 ’s world is much more colorful and vibrant, its side missions are more entertaining, and most importantly, its first-person shooting feels incredible.
 Perhaps its relatively uninteresting story remains its downfall, but few other games handle the wasting enemies as well as Rage 2.
Read our full Rage 2 review Sunset Overdrive (Xbox One, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder Sure, Insomniac Games’ Ratchet & Clank remake and Spider-Man game are both classics, but we cannot forget the outstanding Sunset Overdrive it released near the start of the console generation. Originally an Xbox One exclusive, the game blends goofy third-person action with traversal mechanics similar to the Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater series, all with an irreverent and goofy sense of humor that includes several references to video games themselves and fourth-wall-breaking moments. It didn’t have the name recognition of some of the studio’s more recent games, but it’s a truly underappreciated gem.
Read our full Sunset Overdrive review Darksiders III (PS4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder Rough around the edges but with a very solid foundation, Darksiders III may have been a victim of expectations. It’s the sequel to two fairly enormous action-adventure games but developed by a different studio on a fraction of the budget. As such, it’s smaller and shorter, but the core Souls-style combat mechanics and different forms for protagonist Fury still make it incredibly satisfying. The boss design is also excellent, and you feel like every victory is earned rather than given to you with overpowered special attacks.
Read our full Darksiders III review Valiant Hearts: The Great War (PS3, Xbox 360, PS4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PC, iOS, Android) Image used with permission by copyright holder Many war video games attempt to tell an anti-war story while also allowing you to kill hundreds of people.
Valiant Hearts: The Great War is not one of those games. Set during World War I and starring several different characters, including a nurse, the game shows how the conflict became a matter of survival and self-preservation for many, and the heroic lengths some went to save their fellow humans. Its environmental and visual storytelling, as well as a truly heartbreaking climax, make it one of the most emotional games of the generation, and one that far too few people have played.
Blazing Chrome (PS4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder The new game Contra: Rogue Corps is terrible, but the Hard Corps spiritual successor Blazing Chrome is not! Developed as an homage to the classic Contra games of the 16-bit era, this 2D run and gun game delivers an excellent blend of all-out action, difficult boss battles, and weapon choice to deliver the Contra game fans really wanted. Not having the Contra name likely means it will not be played by as many people, but it is far better than anything Konami has done with the series in over a decade.
No Man’s Sky (PS4, Xbox One, PS5, Xbox Series X|S, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder No Man’s Sky was certainly not underrated when it launched in 2016. In fact, it was extremely disappointing, with an enormous but relatively pointless universe to explore and little incentive for players to keep going. Over the years, however, updates have added multiplayer, base building, quality-of-life improvements, and plenty of customization options that finally bring it into line with what we expected when it was first announced during The Game Awards. Hello Games isn’t done yet, either, with large content updates released on a regular basis to add even more features. It even has PSVR integration now! Read our full No Man’s Sky review Knack 2 (PS4) Image used with permission by copyright holder Yes, we’re serious. The first Knack became a meme for its sheer mediocrity, and for the perplexing decision to make it a PS4 launch game. Its sequel, however, is a much more interesting game, with deeper combat and puzzle mechanics and a charming, if familiar, story. It’s the perfect game for a family to enjoy with their kids, and its difficulty strikes a nice balance between genuine challenge — even for adults — and something that younger players can enjoy without frustration.
Read our full Knack 2 review Super Time Force (Xbox 360, PS4, Xbox One, PS Vita, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder Capybara Games’ unique pixel art style has been used for plenty of adventure and role-playing games over the years, but its unique take on the classic sidescrolling run-and-gun might just be its best. Playing like a blend of Metal Slug and a VCR, you control several different time-traveling heroes and can rewind time in order to duplicate them and have them work together to fight enemies. After just a few minutes, the game’s twist becomes second nature, and it deserves much more recognition than it received.
Middle-earth: Shadow of War (PS4, Xbox One, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder When Middle-earth: Shadow of War first released, it was rightly criticized for microtransactions that had no place in a single-player action-adventure game, but once Monolith Productions removed them and streamlined its progression system, we were left with a brilliant sequel to Shadow of Mordor.
 Building on its foundation, including the excellent Nemesis system, its mix of Batman-style brawling action and Assassin’s Creed stealth give you numerous ways to approach a situation, even if you just want to send in your minions to do your bidding.
Read our full Middle-earth: Shadow of War review The Punisher (PS2, Xbox, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder Back before Volition became famous for the Saints Row series, it developed The Punisher , a game based on the comic book vigilante. This game is quite good, giving you a fun, arcade-style action game with shooting and interrogation mechanics. Things get wacky and over the top quickly, but almost always feels satisfying to play. It has cameos from many Marvel heroes and villains like Iron Man and Daredevil, along with some pretty cool boss fights. It’s a shame we haven’t gotten a proper new Punisher game ( The Punisher: No Mercy doesn’t count) since then, but we’ve got our fingers crossed for the future.
Spec Ops: The Line (PS3, Xbox 360, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder We don’t get games like Spec Ops: The Line often. While many military shooters tend to glorify war, Spec Ops offers more of a realistic take and is poignant — to the point of making the player uncomfortable at times. But that’s what makes it so special. It dared to tell a story that few other military shooters even come close to, which is why it’s a shame it flew under the radar when it launched in 2012.
Spec Ops didn’t sell as well as publisher 2K had hoped and is likely why the series has been dormant since this game released. Nonetheless, we highly recommend giving it a playthrough.
Mirror’s Edge (Xbox 360, PS3, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder As with many underrated games, Mirror’s Edge is such a unique experience, even 13 years after its release in 2008. Its premise focuses on free-running (or parkour) from a first-person perspective. It’s one of the most satisfying gameplay loops that almost puts the player in a trance once it clicks. Running atop buildings or up tall structures to reach your objective is so rewarding, especially when you do it in a stylish way — and it remains unmatched to this day. Its follow-up, Mirror’s Edge: Catalyst , is not bad, but the first game is definitely the superior entry. EA absolutely took a risk with Mirror’s Edge and commercially, it likely didn’t pay off — hence why you don’t see games like this too often.
Einhänder (PS1) Image used with permission by copyright holder Einhänder is a game that absolutely needs a remaster or modern port of some kind because it was truly awesome on the original PlayStation. It’s a 2.5D shoot-’em-up developed by Square (before it became Square Enix). Its visual style and sounds are memorable, but the real star of the show is its gameplay, which consists of the player controlling a ship (pictured above) with various weapons and power-ups to defeat enemies. It’s creepy, satisfying, and above all else, an absolute blast to play.
Wario Land 4 (GBA) Image used with permission by copyright holder Enough about Mario — one Nintendo character that always feels left behind is Wario. And his game, Wario Land 4 , is a shining example that Nintendo is at its best when it gets weird. What makes this game so fun is its levels, which are designed to be completed forward and backward. Each stage is wildly colorful and beautiful, with a ton of personality. Add in some weird humor, hilariously disgusting creature designs, and some Wario charm, and you get one of the Game Boy Advance’s best platformers.
Yakuza: Like a Dragon (PS4, Xbox One, PS5, Xbox Series X|S, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder Even though Yakuza: Like a Dragon gets its fair share of credit, this game deserves a lot more. After all, it’s one of the quirkiest, most heartwarming games of the past generation, full of memorable characters, well-written dialogue, and a story that will make you shed a tear (or several). Beyond its narrative merits, Like a Dragon is the first game in the series to feature revamped turn-based combat, making it feel more like a JRPG and less like a brawler. While the brawler mechanics from the older games are fun, the conversion to a turn-based formula was exactly what the series needed. By the end of the 50-hour story, the main cast will feel like your family, proving this game has some of the best characters in recent memory.
Immortals: Fenyx Rising (PS4, Xbox One, PS5, Xbox Series X|S, Nintendo Switch, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder Ubisoft makes a lot of open-world games, so it’s easy to see why Immortals: Fenyx Rising (formerly known as Gods and Monsters ) went under the radar. At first glance, this game might seem like just another open-world collectathon, but it has a lot more going for it than that. For starters, it has a wonderful cast of famous gods that include Zeus, Hermes, Aphrodite, Odysseus, and others. What’s fascinating about Fenyx Rising is that it plays similarly to Breath of the Wild , most notably in that you can scale nearly every surface to reach higher points on the map. It still follows the traditional Ubisoft formula, wherein you must visit points on the map to either collect an item, take on a challenge, or talk to a character, but the journey is worth experiencing — if nothing else, at least for its solid gameplay.
Read the full Immortals: Fenyx Rising review The Medium (PS5, Xbox Series X|S, PC) Image used with permission by copyright holder The Medium most certainly was overlooked when it launched in 2021, partly because it launched for Xbox Series X|S, which was hard to find at the time. Those who played it praised its psychological horror elements, which covered areas of mental health and trauma. The main standout feature is the split-screen system that simultaneously shows you two realities on-screen: The “real” world and the spirit world. By changing something in one reality, it alters the other, making for some interesting puzzles and gameplay sequences.
The Medium also borrows elements from classics like Silent Hill and Resident Evil — most notably in the animations and atmosphere — making this a gem. It doesn’t always nail everything it sets out to accomplish, but it’s well worth checking out.
Editors' Recommendations Naughty Dog confirms The Last of Us Part II Remastered following leak Where to find planes in Fortnite OG The best PS5 exclusives You only have one week left to share PlayStation clips and screenshots to X The best PS5 games for 2023 Buying Guides Buying Guides Microsoft Sony Sony PlayStation Xbox Gaming The Nintendo Switch has had a lot of success in the nearly six years since its release. The console-handheld hybrid has been on the market since 2017, and a slew of fantastic games from first- and third-party developers have launched over the course of the system's life cycle. Recently, heavy hitters such as Metroid Dread, Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, and Kirby and the Forgotten Land have boosted the system's appeal, while a healthy list of upcoming Switch games continues to drum up excitement.
There are plenty of incredible games to enjoy on the Switch right now. But which ones should you check out? These are the best Nintendo Switch games (including free-to-play titles) for 2023.
Action Gaming PlayStation Plus has gone through several iterations and changes since it was first introduced. Originally, the service wasn't required for online play at all and rewarded subscribers with extra discounts and free monthly games. Once the PlayStation 4 generation began, it was required for online play, but still offered those same benefits.
Now, PS Plus is divided into three different tiers of subscriptions. The basic tier, PS Plus Essential, still gets three games per month added, while the Extra and Premium tiers will have a varying number of games added to their catalogs. With hundreds of games already and more coming and going all the time, even the most dedicated gamer won't be able to play everything on offer. To help you get the most bang for your buck, and so that no hidden gems fly under your radar, here are all the best games to play on PS Plus Essential, Extra, and Premium right now.
Best PS Plus Essential games As is usually the case, everyone with the lowest tier of PS Plus gets three games this month, two with PlayStation 5 versions and one with a PS4 version. Here's what you can play this month: Gaming While the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X might dominate the gaming news spotlight, the PC continues to be one of the best gaming platforms out there. 2023 saw a variety of high-profile releases, and there's still more to come.
If you're searching for your next big PC game (or want to see what's on the horizon before investing in a new rig), here are the best upcoming PC games set to arrive in 2023 and beyond.
2023 PC game releases The games listed below either have 100% confirmed release dates or solid release windows that we expect them to hit this year. Anything that's up in the air due to more vague launch predictions or previous delays will be listed under the following header.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
