Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Common Nintendo Switch Lite problems and how to fix them By Gabe Gurwin Close The Nintendo Switch Lite might not be as versatile as the original Nintendo Switch , but it remains one of the best ways to access your favorite games on the go. Like any gaming system, however, the Switch Lite is not free from technical problems. Though many issues are easy to fix, others can have catastrophic consequences, some of which may require you to purchase a new machine. Here, we’ve outlined some of the most common Switch Lite issues and provided some helpful steps on how to fix them. With any luck, you’ll be playing again in no time.
Problem: I can’t play certain games Problem: Switch Lite won’t fit in the dock Problem: Analog sticks are drifting Problem: Can’t transfer save data from another Switch Problem: Can’t voice chat with headset plugged in Problem: Wireless headphones won’t work Problem: Switch Lite screen is getting scratched Problem: Switch Lite won’t turn on or charge Problem: Game cartridge won’t work Problem: Can’t play games offline Problem: Ran out of system storage Further reading: Best Nintendo Switch games Best Nintendo Switch and Switch Lite cases Best Nintendo Switch tips, tricks, and hacks Problem: I can’t play certain games Felicia Miranda/Digital Trends The Nintendo Switch Lite is designed to be played in handheld mode out of the box. This makes certain games incompatible with the console by default.
 These include games like Super Mario Party and 1-2 Switch , as well as the Nintendo Labo VR Kit.
The system also doesn’t come with a built-in kickstand on the back, meaning that you cannot use it in its tabletop mode out of the box either. This issue and the inability to play certain games have a shared solution, so don’t worry about the Switch Lite’s limitations just yet.
All upcoming Switch games: 2023, 2024, and beyond The best games on Nintendo Switch Online The most common Xbox Series X problems and how to fix them Solution Most of the problems mentioned above can be solved by purchasing a few accessories. In order to play games like Super Mario Party , you need Joy-Cons because the games make heavy use of motion. Separate packs can be purchased online for around $80, and they make the Switch Lite compatible with these games.
You’ll still be playing with the Switch sitting flush on a table, however, without one other accessory: a third-party stand. There are several different manufacturers of Nintendo Switch stands at this point, but we recommend the Dual USB Playstand by HORI. It’s available for just $30 on Amazon and includes a charging nub and ports for plugging in external devices.
Problem: Switch Lite won’t fit in the dock One of the downsides of the Nintendo Switch Lite is its inability to dock and connect to a television. There are no workarounds for this, unfortunately, as the technology needs to output video through USB-C, and HDMI simply isn’t included in the Switch Lite. The standard Nintendo Switch dock also can’t accommodate the Switch Lite, as its analog sticks are in the way.
Solution There is no way to magically let your Switch Lite output to the television, even if you purchase an adapter from a third-party manufacturer. However, you can still use a dock’s internal components to charge the Switch Lite and even connect certain controllers to it. Doing this requires crafting a new shell for your dock, but it should still play nice with the standard Switch once you do this.
Problem: Analog sticks are drifting Image used with permission by copyright holder One of the most common problems facing the Switch Lite also affects the standard Switch: drifting analog sticks. Without moving the sticks themselves, you can experience drifting as your character in a game moves to one side. This can be caused by a hardware failure or by dust or grime getting on the internal components. It’s unfortunately more annoying on the Switch Lite, as you can’t just replace the Joy-Con controller when it happens. Nintendo is even reportedly making a new model to combat the issue.
Solution You have a few options for tackling analog stick drifting on the Switch Lite. Before doing anything else, clean underneath the rubber dome at the base of the analog stick using a cotton swab and isopropyl alcohol.
If this fails, then you will likely need to send your Switch Lite to Nintendo for a repair. Use the official support website and fill out the necessary fields to begin the process.
Problem: Can’t transfer save data from another Switch If you are making the jump from a standard Nintendo Switch system to the Switch Lite, you might want to bring your saved game data with you. However, if you sign into your account and find yourself unable to download any of the game save data, it likely means your account isn’t subscribed to the Nintendo Switch Online service.
Solution The easiest solution for this problem is to subscribe to Nintendo Switch Online. It costs just $20 per year and lets you automatically back your save data up for nearly every game on the system, excluding certain titles like Pokémon: Let’s Go and Dark Souls Remastered.
Alternatively, you can use the data management tool in the system settings from your previous Nintendo Switch system. Select the individual games for which you want to transfer data, and then choose the Receive Save Data option on your Switch Lite for each game. However, note that this option deletes that same save data on the first system.
Problem: Can’t voice chat with headset plugged in Image used with permission by copyright holder One of Nintendo’s most baffling decisions with the Switch was to limit in-game chat to a separate application. The application requires players to have a mobile phone on hand and connect to the system like a bizarre Frankenstein’s monster. The Switch Lite does not support voice chat when you simply plug a chat headset into its 3.5mm audio port, and instead will only play game audio.
Solution There are a few different solutions to this issue, and they are identical to what you would do on the standard Nintendo Switch. You can opt to download the Nintendo Switch Online app, connect your phone to your Switch Lite, and invite your friend to chat while you’re in a game. However, we suggest using a service like Skype or Discord and chatting with them directly on your phone. It requires one fewer cable, and you can talk if you switch games or log off.
Problem: Wireless headphones won’t work If you want to use wireless headphones with the Nintendo Switch Lite, they aren’t going to work by default. A Bluetooth adapter is necessary for you to do this, and you have to make sure you choose one that is compatible with the Switch Lite’s unique design, or you could be wasting your cash.
Solution We discovered an inexpensive Bluetooth adapter from GuliKit that is compatible with the Switch Lite and maintains a very small footprint. The adapter should allow any Bluetooth headphones you own to function with the Switch Lite, and its USB-C plug means no extra converters are required to use it.
Problem: Switch Lite screen is getting scratched Image used with permission by copyright holder For reasons we’re not quite sure of, Nintendo uses very scratch-prone screens on its Nintendo Switch systems. Since you’ll likely take the Switch Lite with you on the go, you have to be careful of the system’s screen getting scratched or cracked. You won’t have to worry about a dock scratching the screen, like with the standard Switch, but it remains an important issue.
Solution Your solution here is simple and inexpensive: a screen protector.
 Before you even play your Nintendo Switch Lite system at all, purchase a screen protector and apply it as directed. You can find bundles that also include a carrying case, and you can choose between plastic and tempered glass. Either will work, though tempered glass will also help protect against impact damage.
Problem: Switch Lite won’t turn on or charge In rare instances, you may find that your Nintendo Switch will not turn on or that you are greeted with a black screen when trying to use it. This can mean a few things — your battery may be completely dead or your system may be defective. However, there is no need to panic right away if this occurs.
Solution You have a few potential solutions for this problem, though some are more involved than others. Should your battery simply be dead, unplug the official Switch charger on both sides, reconnect it, and give the system a few hours to charge before unplugging it to see if it is holding its charge. If not, you may need a new charging cable.
Should this not solve the problem, hold down the power button for 12 seconds to force a hard reset. This may resolve the issue, as it returns the console to its original state.
If neither solution works, you will need to send it in for repair.
Problem: Game cartridge won’t work Image used with permission by copyright holder The Nintendo Switch Lite supports physical game cartridges, but you might encounter an issue getting them to be recognized when put into the system. This can be a problem with the cartridge itself, or it could be a sign of a larger issue with the console’s own hardware.
Solution Once you ensure that your Switch Lite is updated to the latest console firmware, take out the game cartridge in question and replace it with a different game. If the second game is recognized, the problem is likely with the game itself, and you will have to get it replaced at the point of purchase. If the second game cartridge isn’t recognized, then you will need to send the Switch Lite in for repair.
Problem: Can’t play games offline Just like with the Xbox One and PlayStation 4, you can encounter an issue on Nintendo Switch Lite where your game library cannot be played offline. This problem will occur with digital games tied to your Nintendo Account, and there is an easy step you can take to make them work properly — but it will affect any other Switch systems tied to that account.
Solution If you want to get Nintendo Switch digital games on your Switch Lite to work offline, you have to register the system as your primary Nintendo Switch. First, you will need to de-register the original Switch system via the console’s settings.
 Once you’ve finished, turn that system off and access the eShop on the Switch Lite. It will automatically become the new primary console, allowing digital games to work offline.
Problem: Ran out of system storage Image used with permission by copyright holder Unfortunately, you may run into some issues with storage. Currently, the Switch Lite only supports about 32GB of storage, so you’ll only be able to store a small number of games. Some popular games don’t even operate with 32GB devices, to begin with— which means you may need to use an external storage device to play certain games. Luckily, you can pick from many budget-friendly external-storage options to upgrade your device.
Solution The Switch Lite is immediately compatible with microSDHC and microSDXC cards if you’d like to expand your potential for data. These cards can provide an overall additional two terabytes of data— a storage amount far larger than most gamers will ever need. You can easily opt for a smaller, less expensive option with a 256GB card , which could cost you about $53.
SanDisk provides top-tier microSD cards that contain the memory of a small SSD on a standard computer. If you use one of these tools, you’ll grow the storage space on your Switch Lite for a reasonable price. These cards are also very easy to set up under the microSD card cover.
Editors' Recommendations The best Switch games for 2023 When does Hogwarts Legacy come out on Nintendo Switch? Nintendo Switch deals: Don’t pay full price! Red Dead Redemption is coming to Nintendo Switch and PS4 this month The best single-player Nintendo Switch games Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming The Nintendo Switch is a smash-hit with a wide library of titles across all genres, so it should come as no surprise that it has amassed a wealth of great role-playing games. Many of them are ports of titles previously released on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, but others are exclusive to Nintendo's hybrid system -- such as Xenoblade Chronicles 3 and Pokémon Scarlet and Violet.
Whether you're looking for a turn-based classic or something new with a massive open world, the portable console has it all. Here are the best role-playing games on Nintendo Switch.
Gaming From the moment we first saw the Nintendo Switch, it was advertised as being a device tailor-made for socializing. The portability, plus the fact that each Joy-Con can be used as an individual controller, makes it the easiest console to bring out for some quick multiplayer fun. As a company, Nintendo has always been focused on making games fun and social experiences first and foremost, and it's certainly exemplified this ideology with the Switch. However, not every game on the Switch is suitable for a party environment. These games need to be more than just multiplayer games — they need to be titles that are easy for anyone to pick up and play.
The first party lineup of Switch games contains a majority of the best party games. No one knows its hardware better than Nintendo, and it's gone out of its way to craft some perfect party games that even people who don't traditionally play games can have fun with, similar to the Wii. That being said, there are way more games on the Switch that can be perfect for small and large gatherings of friends and family. If you want to spice up a party with some games, here are the best party games for Nintendo Switch.
Gaming At first glance, the Nintendo Switch seems like a kid's system. The platform has, historically, been considered for children. However, as Nintendo has grown, so has its fan base. The company has worked to change this perspective and try to garner adult viewership. They've primarily done this by focusing on creating games and bringing in ports that focus on adult audiences.
Although the system may not have all the capabilities of the PlayStation or Xbox, the Nintendo Switch can still bring any adult joy. Adults can, and should, pick up the switch, not just for its portability but also for the awesome games you can play. If you're looking for a more grown-up-centered game for your Nintendo Switch, you've come to the right place! Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
