Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides How to delete and reinstall games on your Xbox One Clear up some space on your Xbox One hard drive for the latest games By Gabe Gurwin Close Five years into the life cycle of the Xbox One, storage space has become a valuable commodity. The base model’s 500GB drive doesn’t seem quite so spacious when your “Ready to Install” list is packed with AAA games that can take up more than 50GB — and even double that if you’re downloading 4K-compatible games on an Xbox One X. We’ll tell you how to delete games on an Xbox One so you have more room for all your new titles.
How to uninstall games on an Xbox One Reinstalling deleted games Difficulty Duration What You Need Xbox One External hard drive (optional) Internet connection Unless you’ve invested in an external drive to increase your console’s storage capacity, you’ve probably experienced the feeling that comes when you are forced to delete one of your games to make room for another. If not, the first time can be a harrowing — and confusing — experience. To help you out, we assembled this handy guide on how to delete and reinstall your content. It won’t make picking which games to eradicate from your drive any easier, but it will tell you which buttons to press to do so.
How to uninstall games on an Xbox One Step 1: From the Xbox One home screen, press the Xbox Button and select My Games & Apps.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Highlight the title of the game you would like to remove from your hard drive and press Menu on your controller. (That’s the Start button, for most players.) Image used with permission by copyright holder One of the best games of the year is finally coming to Xbox next month All upcoming Xbox Series X games: 2023, 2024 and beyond How to set up multiple monitors for PC gaming Step 3: Select Uninstall from the pop-up menu that appears.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: (Optional) You’ll be able to see some details about the game, including the file size and a link to the game’s page, in the Xbox Store.
 You can choose to move the data if you have another storage device connected. Alternatively, you can choose to copy it or uninstall it entirely. Choose Uninstall All , and you will remove the entire game from your hard drive. This includes DLC and any extra content the game may incorporate.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: Any data you saved in a game will be deleted when you uninstall the game, so back everything up before you make any major changes on your console. If you’ve kept your data in the cloud, then you’ll have a backup that you can add back into the game after you re-download it.
Reinstalling deleted games Step 1: To reinstall a deleted game, head back to My Games & Apps.
Step 2: Select Full Library in the top drop-down menu, then select All Owned Games from the menu. You’ll be able to see every game you’ve previously purchased, even if you’ve uninstalled it from your console.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: To reinstall a title, highlight the one you want and click Install.
Step 4: A progress counter will pop up on the bottom-left corner of the screen to tell you your current download speed and how much time is remaining.
Step 5: You’re also able to install all content for a specified game at once. To do so, click the Install All option.
In order to share games via Xbox One, check out our handy guide.
One downside of the Xbox One is that it doesn’t have as much storage space as we’re used to for gaming consoles since it’s limited to 500GB. Once you learn how to prioritize what you keep on the hard drive, you’ll be able to enjoy a more streamlined gaming experience. Deleting, reinstalling, and backing up games via the cloud makes the most of the platform’s limited capacity. Linking your console to a cloud backup ensures you won’t lose any of your saved data, and you’ll be free to uninstall and reinstall games to get the most out of your hard drive.
Editors' Recommendations Xbox Series X Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and accessories How to play split screen in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 Check out this fantastic horror game before it leaves Xbox Game Pass next week Sims 4 cheats: all cheat codes for PC, Xbox, PS4, PS5, and more One of the year’s best reviewed games is coming to Xbox Game Pass How-To How-To Guides Microsoft Xbox Xbox One Computing The best graphics cards all support ray tracing now, whether you use an Nvidia RTX card or an AMD Radeon one (assuming it's from the RX 6000 range or perhaps one of the latest RX 7000-series cards). We rounded up every game that supports ray tracing on PC now, as well as several titles that will support the sophisticated lighting tech in the future.
Ray tracing is demanding on your graphics card, but the list of ray tracing PC games continues to grow. If you don't want to sort through the mess, make sure to read our roundup on the best ray-tracing PC games to know which ones to download first. And if you're a beginner, jump to the bottom section to find out what you need for ray tracing on PC.
Ray-tracing PC games available now Computing Outside of buying from gaming PC deals, the easiest upgrade that gamers can make is an investment in a top-of-the-line monitor. If you've got the cash, you should spend it on the Dell G3223Q 4K gaming monitor, which is available from Dell with a $200 discount. From its original price of $800, it's down to $600, which still isn't cheap but it may be the missing piece to your dream gaming setup. You'll have to proceed with the purchase as soon as possible though, as the savings may no longer be available tomorrow.
Why you should buy the Dell G3223Q 4K gaming monitor The Dell G3223Q 4K gaming monitor offers 4K Ultra HD resolution on its 32-inch display, which will let you appreciate the finest details of the best PC games. It also offers a 144Hz refresh rate, which our computer monitor buying guide explains as how often images on the screen are updated, and a 1ms response time, which is how fast the monitor shows image transitions. The Dell G3223Q 4K gaming monitor also supports AMD's FreeSync Premium Pro, which eliminates screen tearing and stuttering that break your immersion while you're playing.
Gaming Dedicated gamers have two specific, and often competing, goals whenever October comes around. On one hand, the fall season is a sign that the year is winding down. Anyone who wants to finish off their backlog of games released in 2023 before the 2024 flood begins needs to start finding ways to cut down their backlog. Though there are even more pressing matters in October: it's spooky season! With a month-long Halloween celebration in full swing, October is also the perfect time to marathon some creepy games. Usually, that might mean going back to play some classics like Silent Hill 2, leaving little room to catch up on new games.
But what if you could kill two vampires with one stake? Well, you can this year because 2023 has been a wild year for horror video games. From two high-profile remakes to a slew of indie greats, your backlog this year might already be full of great, creepy games. To help organize your October, we've put together a list of seven eerie 2023 releases that double as great Halloween games. You can fly your freak flag and cut down your list of game to play in one go -- that's efficiency! Resident Evil 4 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
