Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Nobody knows exactly how the M3’s Dynamic Caching works, but I have a theory By Jacob Roach Close Apple During Apple’s “Scary Fast” event , one feature caught my eye unlike anything else: Dynamic Caching. Probably like most people watching the presentation, I had one reaction: “How does memory allocation increase performance?” What exactly is Dynamic Caching? Used vs. allocated Still a black box Apple based its debut of the new M3 chip around a “cornerstone” feature it calls Dynamic Caching for the GPU. Apple’s simplified explanation doesn’t make it clear exactly what Dynamic Caching does, much less how it improves performance of the GPU on the M3.
I dug deep into typical GPU architectures and sent some direct questions to find out what exactly Dynamic Caching is. Here’s my best understanding of what is undoubtedly the most technically dense feature Apple has ever slapped a brand on.
The MacBook Pro M3 doesn’t have a memory problem — it has a pricing problem Why Apple’s subtle MacBook Pro decision makes me so happy Why the MacBook Air is still stuck on the M2 What exactly is Dynamic Caching? Apple Dynamic Caching is a feature that allows M3 chips to only use the precise amount of memory that a particular task needs. Here’s how Apple describes it in the official press release: “Dynamic Caching, unlike traditional GPUs, allocates the use of local memory in hardware in real time. With Dynamic Caching, only the exact amount of memory needed is used for each task. This is an industry first, transparent to developers, and the cornerstone of the new GPU architecture. It dramatically increases the average utilization of the GPU, which significantly increases performance for the most demanding pro apps and games.” In typical Apple fashion, a lot of the technical aspects are intentionally obscured to focus on the outcome. There’s just enough there to get the gist without giving away the secret sauce or confusing audiences with technical jargon. But the general takeaway seems to be that Dynamic Caching allows the GPU to have more efficient memory allocation. Simple enough, right? Well, it’s still not exactly clear how memory allocation “increases the average utilization” or “significantly increases performance.” To even attempt to understand Dynamic Caching, we have to step back to examine how GPUs work. Unlike CPUs, GPUs excel at handling massive workloads in parallel. These workloads are called shaders, which are the programs that the GPU execute. To effectively utilize a GPU, programs need to execute a ton of shaders at once. You want to use up as many of the available cores as possible.
This leads to an effect that Nvidia calls the “tail.” A load of shaders execute at once, and then there’s a dip in utilization while more shaders are sent to be executed on threads (or more accurately, thread blocks on a GPU). This effect was mirrored in Apple’s presentation when it explained Dynamic Caching, as the GPU utilization spiked before bottoming out.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How does this play into memory? Functions on your GPU read instructions from memory and write the output of the function to memory. Many functions will also need to access memory multiple times while being executed. Unlike a CPU where memory latency through RAM and cache is extremely important due to the low level of parallel functions, memory latency on a GPU is easier to hide. These are highly parallel processors, so if some functions are digging around in memory, others can be executing.
That works when all of the shaders are easy to execute, but demanding workloads will have very complex shaders. When these shaders are scheduled to be executed, the memory needed to execute them will be allocated, even if it isn’t needed. The GPU is partitioning a lot of its resources to one complex task, even if those resources will go to waste. It seems Dynamic Caching is Apple’s attempt to more effectively utilize the resources available to the GPU, ensuring that these complex tasks take only what they need.
This should, in theory, increase the average utilization of the GPU by allowing more tasks to execute at once, rather than having a smaller set of demanding tasks gobbling up all of the resources available to the GPU. Apple’s explanation focuses on the memory first, making it seem as if memory allocation alone increases performance. From my understanding, it seems that efficient allocation allows more shaders to execute at once, which would then lead to an increase utilization and performance.
Used vs. allocated One major aspect that is key to understanding my attempt at an explanation of Dynamic Caching is how shaders branch. The programs your GPU executes aren’t always static. They can change depending on different conditions, which is especially true in large, complex shaders like the ones required for ray tracing.
 These conditional shaders need to allocate resources for the worst possible scenario, which means some resources could go to waste.
Here’s how Unity explains dynamic branching shaders in its documentation: “For any type of dynamic branching, the GPU must allocate register space for the worst case. If one branch is much more costly than the other, this means that the GPU wastes register space. This can lead to fewer invocations of the shader program in parallel, which reduces performance.” It appears Apple is targeting this type of branching with Dynamic Caching, allowing the GPU to only use the resources it needs rather than them going to waste. It’s possible the feature could have implications elsewhere, but it’s not clear where and when Dynamic Caching kicks in while a GPU is executing its tasks.
Still a black box Apple Of course, I need to note that all this is just my understanding, cobbled together from how GPUs traditionally function and what Apple has officially stated. Apple may release more info on how it all works eventually, but ultimately, the technical minutiae of Dynamic Caching doesn’t matter if Apple is, indeed, able to improve GPU utilization and performance.
In the end, Dynamic Caching is a marketable term for a feature that goes deep within the architecture of a GPU. Trying to understand that without being someone who designs GPUs will inevitably lead to misconceptions and reductive explanations. In theory, Apple could have just nixed the branding and let the architecture speak for itself.
If you were looking for a deeper look into what Dynamic Caching could be doing in the M3’s GPU, you now have a possible explanation. What’s important is how the final product performs, though, and we don’t have long to wait until Apple’s first M3 devices are available to the public for us all to find out. But based on the performance claims and demos we’ve seen so far, it certainly looks promising.
Editors' Recommendations Here’s why people are raising concerns about the M3 Pro MacBook Pro Apple’s M3 Max appears to keep up with Intel’s top desktop CPU Apple’s new M3 Pro might come with an unexpected downgrade Apple has everything it needs to dominate gaming — except games The M3 is the most important chip Apple has ever made Apple Features Computing Apple announced an update to its MacBook Pros at today's Scary Fast event that brings the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max under the hood. That might sound like a ho-hum generational chip refresh, especially coming just 10 months after the M2 Pro/Max models came out. But trust me -- these new MacBook Pros have become an unstoppable force, especially the new full-tilt model with the M3 Max.
The 14-inch MacBook Pro (which replaces the 13-inch MacBook Pro) will now have the option for the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max, while the 16-inch model gets the M3 Pro and an even more powerful M3 Max configuration. Across the board, these new M3 chips are built on the new 3nm technology, the same that's used in the new iPhone 15 models, only scaled up for the Mac. It's all about efficiency, with Apple claiming that the M3 chips provides the same performance at 30% less power.
Computing Apple's unexpected "Scary Fast" event has wrapped, and the 30-minute presentation was packed full of announcements. Headlining the showcase was Apple's new M3 chip, which is showing up in a variety of devices in just a week from now.
We have the lowdown on everything Apple announced at its unprecedented fall event, which kicks off the third generation of Apple's silicon with two major product updates.
M3 family of chips Computing At its Scary Fast event, Apple announced a refresh to the 24-inch iMac, bringing the M3 to its popular all-in-one desktop. The M3 is a big deal, especially since the iMac was the only Mac to not get an M2 update.
There were some things Apple didn't announce that many were hoping for: new accessories. Rumors leading up to the event pointed to a new Magic Keyboard and Magic Mouse, but that didn't come to fruition. With the iPhone's recent change to USB-C, some speculated that the Mac peripherals would also move away from Lightning. That didn't happen.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
