Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Apple M3: explaining the next generation of Apple silicon By Jacob Roach Close Apple Apple finally revealed the M3 family of chips at its “Scary Fast” event , where it introduced three new processors and two new products sporting them. Although it’s technically the third generation of Apple silicon, the M3 might be the most important chip Apple has ever created. Because of that, it’s important to get up to speed on it.
Specs and release date Dynamic Caching and ray tracing Which Macs have M3 chips? Entry-level M3 performance Performance for the high-end chips We have the full breakdown of Apple’s M3 family, including the first products we’ll see the chips in, when you can buy them, and how the M3 compares to the M2.
Specs and release date Apple Apple announced the M3 family during its “Scary Fast” event on October 30, 2023. Unlike previous chip announcements, Apple revealed the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max in one go. the first devices sporting the chips arrive on November 7.
MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? Apple’s new M3 Pro might come with an unexpected downgrade The M3 Max makes the MacBook Pro look like a nearly unbeatable laptop The big change with the new chips is the 3nm node Apple has transitioned to. Both the M1 and M2 used a 5nm process, while the M3 finally changes the process. That change applies to the entire M3 family as well.
Because of that, Apple didn’t boost core counts. The base M3 still comes with an 8-core CPU and either an 8-core or 10-core GPU. Similarly, the M3 Pro comes with a 12-core CPU and an 18-core GPU, while the M3 Max has a 16-core CPU and a 40-core GPU. The only major difference here is that the M3 Max can scale up to 128GB of Unified Memory, unlike the M2 Max that topped out at 96GB.
Apple Apple changed the M3 Pro a bit compared to last-gen’s M2 Pro as well. The M3 Pro comes with six performance and six efficiency cores, while the M2 Pro has eight performance cores and four efficiency cores. It looks like an unexpected downgrade on paper, though the node advantage of the M3 Pro should mean it will still offer higher performance.
Apple says the performance cores of the M3 family are 30% faster than the M1 and 15% faster than the M2, while the efficiency cores are 50% faster than the M1 family and 30% faster than the M2 family. That means M3 chips represent a 20% to 25% improvement over the M2 based on the node advantages, but as usual, we’ll have to wait for third-party benchmarks to verify Apple’s claims.
Dynamic Caching and ray tracing Apple The process shift is significant for the M3 family, but Apple is also touting an entirely new GPU architecture. The key feature of this architecture is Dynamic Caching, which promises to increase average GPU utilization and improve performance by only using the exact amount of memory that tasks need.
How Dynamic Caching works is a little complicated. It appears the feature keeps complex GPU programs called shaders from taking more memory than they need, thus allowing simpler GPU programs to finish faster. This should, in theory, improve performance.
It seems Dynamic Caching has enabled a few key features of the M3 family. One of those is hardware-accelerated ray tracing , allowing Macs to finally take advantage of this feature in games. There aren’t a ton of games that support ray tracing on Mac, but hopefully, we’ll see more now that an Apple chip has official support.
The other is mesh shading. Mesh shaders have been around for a few years on Windows PCs, but they’re only now becoming an essential feature for gaming. Support for mesh shaders isn’t a feature that matters much right now, but it sets the M3 family up well for the future, especially if Apple continues its push into Mac gaming.
Which Macs have M3 chips? Apple We expect that Apple’s full lineup of Macs will eventually transition to M3 chips, but for now, they’re only available in two products: the 24-inch iMac and the MacBook Pro. You can’t mix and match the M3 chips with the products, though. Apple has them split up in a specific way.
Here’s how that breaks down: 24-inch iMac — Only M3 14-inch MacBook Pro — M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max 16-inch MacBook Pro — M3 Pro or M3 Max As for the next products that will receive an update, it’s tough to say.
Rumor has it that Apple is still working on a 27-inch iMac Pro for early next year, so we could see that product sporting the M3 Pro and M3 Max chips some time early in 2024. The iMac Pro is going on six years old at this point, though, so it might be a dead product.
The obvious candidate for an M3 upgrade is the Mac mini. Apple last updated the Mac mini in January 2023, and it remains the most cost-effective way to get in on Apple silicon. We suspect that this will be the next product to receive an M3 upgrade, at least based on Apple’s normal release cadence.
A couple of products we don’t expect to see upgrades to for a while are the MacBook Air and Mac Studio. Apple just released the 15-inch MacBook Air and the M2 Mac Studio in June 2023, so we probably won’t hear updates about these products until late in 2024. On top of that, Apple is still selling the MacBook Air M1, suggesting that it will hold back an M3 upgrade for as long as it can.
Entry-level M3 performance Apple The base M3 chip is only available in two products right now, but Apple is claiming some massive performance gains. The company says the 8-core CPU is 35% faster than M1 and 20% faster than M2, while the 10-core GPU is 65% faster than the M1 and 20% faster than the M2. It’s important to note those are “up to” numbers, meaning you won’t always see that high of a performance gain.
In specific apps, Apple says the M3 inside the 14-inch MacBook Pro provides 40% faster image filter and effects performance compared to the M2 in the 13-inch MacBook Pro. That’s the only comparison to the M2 that Apple has provided so far, though. Compared to the M1 in the 13-inch MacBook Pro, Apple says the 14-inch M3 model provides 60% faster render performance in Final Cut Pro, 40% faster code compilation in Xcode, and 40% faster spreadsheet performance in Microsoft Excel.
For CPU tasks, it seems the gains made by the M3 compared to the M2 are relatively small. It’s the redesigned GPU that looks like the main performance driver, likely explaining the massive leap Apple is claiming in image filter and effects performance.
We suspect the M3 will truly shine in the 24-inch iMac , which has been restricted to the M1 since it launched. Overall, Apple says the M3 model is twice as fast as the M1 model. Apple says Safari and Microsoft Excel performance are up to 30% faster, gaming achieves 50% faster frame rates, and Final Cut Pro and Photoshop are up to twice as fast.
As is usually the case with Apple’s benchmarks, you shouldn’t take them at face value. They’re vague, and even if Apple’s claims are true, it’s important to wait for third-party benchmarks to see if the extra performance carries any caveats.
Performance for the high-end chips Apple Moving up the stack to the M3 Pro and M3 Max, the gains compared to previous generations start to slip. The 12-core CPU on the M3 Pro is up to 20% faster than the M1 Pro, according to Apple. Interestingly, Apple didn’t provide a comparison to the M2 Pro. That could be because there isn’t much of a gain in the CPU department. Apple says the 18-core GPU provides up to a 40% improvement over M1 Pro, but only a modest 10% improvement over M2 Pro.
Apple The same isn’t true for M3 Max, where Apple is claiming the highest generational gains out of the M3 family. The company says the 16-core CPU is up to 50% faster than the M2 Max and up to a massive 80% faster than the M1 Max. Similarly, the 40-core GPU is up to 20% faster than the M2 Max and up to 50% faster than the M1 Max.
In practice, Apple claims that the M3 Pro achieves 40% higher performance in Photoshop and 30% faster editing in Premiere Pro compared to the M1 Pro. Unsurprisingly, the M3 Max shines more, achieving twice the performance of the M1 Max in MathWorks, 2.5 times the performance of the M1 Max in Maxon Redshift, and 65% higher performance in DaVinci Resolve.
Out of the M3 family, it certainly seems like the M3 Max is the chip that truly stands out. We expecting middling CPU gains and a solid increase in GPU performance from all chips, but it seems the M3 Max has big gains for both the CPU and GPU, at least according to Apple’s numbers. Once again, it’s important to wait for third-party testing to verify Apple’s claims.
Editors' Recommendations The MacBook Pro M3 doesn’t have a memory problem — it has a pricing problem Apple’s M3 Max appears to keep up with Intel’s top desktop CPU Why the MacBook Air is still stuck on the M2 Everything announced at Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ event: iMac, M3, and more Apple’s new M3 looks fast, but will it really be worth the upgrade? Apple Computing At its Scary Fast event, Apple announced a refresh to the 24-inch iMac, bringing the M3 to its popular all-in-one desktop. The M3 is a big deal, especially since the iMac was the only Mac to not get an M2 update.
There were some things Apple didn't announce that many were hoping for: new accessories. Rumors leading up to the event pointed to a new Magic Keyboard and Magic Mouse, but that didn't come to fruition. With the iPhone's recent change to USB-C, some speculated that the Mac peripherals would also move away from Lightning. That didn't happen.
Computing Apple announced the M3 series of chips today but has switched up the rollout in a significant way. In previous years, the company started with the base configuration of the chip series, whether that's the M1 or the M2. The initial releases would build the foundation of what these chips could do on entry-level devices like the MacBook Air or Mac mini.
Intel rolls out its chips in a similar way, starting its annual refresh of laptop chips with its entry-level stuff first.
Computing While Apple has been making huge strides with its own Mac chips in recent years, we haven’t really seen anything in the Windows world that can match it for both performance and efficiency at the same time. Now, Qualcomm is claiming its upcoming Arm-based Snapdragon X Elite chips can finally do just that -- but there’s a serious catch involved.
According to PC World, Qualcomm demoed the Snapdragon X Elite at its Snapdragon Technology Summit, where the chipmaker claimed that its latest efforts would trounce everything that came before it, in particular Intel’s 13th-generation processors.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
