Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Everything announced at Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ event: iMac, M3, and more By Jacob Roach Close Apple’s unexpected “Scary Fast” event has wrapped, and the 30-minute presentation was packed full of announcements. Headlining the showcase was Apple’s new M3 chip , which is showing up in a variety of devices in just a week from now.
M3 family of chips 14-inch MacBook Pro M3 14-inch and 16-inch MacBook Pro with M3 Pro/Max 24-inch iMac M3 We have the lowdown on everything Apple announced at its unprecedented fall event, which kicks off the third generation of Apple’s silicon with two major product updates.
M3 family of chips Apple The biggest news out of the event was Apple’s family of M3 chips. We expected to see the M3 at the event, but Apple went ahead and announced the M3 Pro and M3 Max as well — something it’s never done before.
We’ll get to the products these chips will show up in shortly, but the M3 represents more than a minor refresh to Apple’s lineup. It’s the first desktop chip to sport a 3nm process, offering a huge node advantage over the M1 and M2. This chip was, reportedly, supposed to launch last year, but it seems Apple gave it more time to incubate in order to secure more supply.
In terms of improvements, Apple says the chips come with a faster CPU, along with a GPU with an entirely new architecture. That architecture is built around Dynamic Caching, which Apple says offers a huge boost to GPU performance. Along with hardware-accelerated ray tracing and mesh shader support — both first for Apple GPUs — the M3 is said to offer 60% faster graphics performance than the M1.
It’s the process that changing here. Like the M2, the M3 offers an eight-core CPU and either an eight-core or 10-core GPU. The M3 Pro sports an 18-core GPU and 12-core CPU, while the M3 Max goes up to a 16-core CPU and 40-core GPU. Apple also increased memory capacity for the M3 Max, with support for up to 128GB of Unified Memory now.
14-inch MacBook Pro M3 Apple Finally, Apple is killing its 13-inch MacBook Pro.
 If you’re not up to speed, Apple has offered the 13-inch MacBook Pro alongside the 13-inch MacBook Air for the last two generations, with both sporting the same processor. That’s led to a situation where both machines offer identical performance, forcing the 13-inch MacBook Pro into an awkward spot.
That’s over now. The 14-inch MacBook Pro has the base M3 as an option, and it will replace the 13-inch MacBook Pro M2. The bump in screen size also comes with a bump in price, with the MacBook Pro starting at $1,600 with the M3. Compared to the 13-inch MacBook Pro with M1, Apple says the M3 model offers 60% faster render performance in Final Cut Pro, 40% faster code compilation, and 40% faster spreadsheet performance.
Apple didn’t announce an update to the MacBook Air with the M3. It’ll be interesting to see how pricing shakes out if the M3 ever makes it to the MacBook Air, but for now, the 14-inch MacBook Pro remains the only way you can get the M3 in a laptop.
The 14-inch MacBook Pro M3 is available to order now, and it will be released on November 7.
14-inch and 16-inch MacBook Pro with M3 Pro/Max Apple Apple will also offer the 14-inch MacBook Pro with the M3 Pro and M3 Max, along with a 16-inch model that exclusively uses one of the Pro or Max chips. These start at $2,000 for the 14-inch model and $2,500 for the 16-inch model, both with the M3 Pro.
There are a few updates to these models outside of the M3, though. Exclusive to the M3 Pro and M3 Max models, Apple is offering the new Space Black color option. These models are also available in silver, while the 14-inch MacBook Pro with M3 is available in silver and Space Gray.
Apple also improved the Liquid Retina XDR display in these laptops.
 With HDR , the display can now sustain up 1,000 nits of brightness, while peaking at 1,600 nits. And in SDR, the screen is capable of up to 600 nits, which Apple claims is 20% brighter than before.
Finally, Apple is claiming up to 22 hours of battery life in the MacBook Pro with M3. We expect that battery life will be lower with the M3 Pro and M3 Max, but Apple is already in a league of its own when it comes to laptop battery life.
Like the 14-inch MacBook Pro, you can order these models now, with units shipping on November 7.
24-inch iMac M3 Apple Apple is finally updating the 24-inch iMac.
 It’s now available with the M3, offering what should be a massive upgrade over the previous model. Apple says the 24-inch iMac with M3 is up to twice as fast as the previous version, and it starts at the same price of $1,300.
Thankfully, Apple didn’t mess too much with the format of the iMac with M1 , which has claimed a spot on our list of the best desktop computers for years. It’s available in the same seven-color options as before, with matching accessories, and Apple kept the 4.5K Retina display that’s capable of up to 500 nits of brightness.
There are some changes outside of the chip, though. Apple has bolstered connectivity with Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.3, and there is access to up to four USB-C ports, two of which support Thunderbolt.
 The base model with an 8-core GPU is still limited to two USB-C ports, however.
The 24-inch iMac M3 is available to buy now starting at $1,300 with an 8-core GPU. Apple is also offering a version with a 10-core GPU for $1,500. The desktop will be available at retailers on November 7.
Editors' Recommendations Here’s why people are raising concerns about the M3 Pro MacBook Pro The MacBook Pro M3 doesn’t have a memory problem — it has a pricing problem Apple just dashed our iMac hopes and dreams Why Apple’s subtle MacBook Pro decision makes me so happy Apple M3: explaining the next generation of Apple silicon Apple Laptops Mac Tech News Computing During Apple's "Scary Fast" event, one feature caught my eye unlike anything else: Dynamic Caching. Probably like most people watching the presentation, I had one reaction: "How does memory allocation increase performance?" Apple based its debut of the new M3 chip around a "cornerstone" feature it calls Dynamic Caching for the GPU. Apple's simplified explanation doesn't make it clear exactly what Dynamic Caching does, much less how it improves performance of the GPU on the M3.
Computing There’s no doubt that the introduction of new M3 chips was the main event at Apple’s Scary Fast show. Yet, it looks possible that the M3 Pro might actually have a significant downgrade compared to the Apple silicon chips that came before it.
Apple explained that the M3 Pro chip in the 16-inch and 14-inch MacBook Pro is up to 40% faster than the M1 Pro in the 16-inch MacBook Pro. Yet, as spotted by MacRumors, there are some situations where the latest chips actually look a little worse than their predecessors -- at least on paper.
Computing Apple Event - October 30 Apple revealed refreshed Mac computers and its latest chip at its special “Scary Fast” event on Monday.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
