Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Your PC problem could probably be fixed with a BIOS update By Jacob Roach Close As someone who tinkers with PC hardware for a living, I’m generally the first stop for friends and family members who are having issues with their PC. There are a lot of simple fixes — it’s still easy to swap your WASD and arrow keys , for instance — but also a fair share of problems that go deeper.
Why your BIOS is so important A BIOS update caveat But BIOS updates are scary Essential troubleshooting I have a checklist of troubleshooting steps that I share over a call or text. Did you run Windows update? Have you checked your drivers? Are you using the latest BIOS? And it’s that last question where I often run into issues.
Drivers and updates are part of routine maintenance, but BIOS updates strangely aren’t. You don’t need to update your BIOS with every new version, but it’s an important troubleshooting step that can solve a surprising number of issues when your PC is acting up. And because of that, it’s worth exploring why BIOS updates are so important and why they’re often skipped over when trying to figure out what’s wrong with your PC.
Why your BIOS is so important Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Let’s start with a basic definition. BIOS stands for Basic Input/Output System, and it’s the first thing your PC loads when starting up. The BIOS checks all of your components to make sure they’re working, and it gets the ball rolling on loading your operating system. It also has close access to the hardware, giving you control over things like voltages for CPU overclocking, while your operating system is more abstract in how it communicates with hardware.
The vital thing to know, however, is that your BIOS isn’t smart like your operating system is. It’s preset to go through a list of processes that ends with finding the bootloader for your OS. You can interrupt that process to change some settings, but your BIOS is going to go through its list of checks as quickly as possible to get you into the OS. Like any software, though, your BIOS isn’t perfect.
We recently saw MSI motherboards causing random crashes with a Windows update, which was fixed through a BIOS update. In June, it was revealed that over 270 Gigabyte motherboards had security vulnerabilities through the BIOS. And off-the-shelf PCs get BIOS updates all the time to address security issues, such as when Lenovo discovered six major vulnerabilities in its BIOS last year.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends In addition, BIOS updates shouldn’t impact your PCs performance, but they can. A lack of dedicated hardware support or niche bugs that only impact a certain combination of motherboard, Windows version, and an app surface all of the time, which is a big reason why we see BIOS updates so frequently. It could be a particular kit of memory causing problems in a particular game or app, which could be fixed by a BIOS update. In addition, BIOS updates can add new features, and those definitely can improve performance.
Your BIOS is the conductor that gets your PC up and running, so it’s important to look toward the BIOS whenever your PC is acting up. This is particularly true if you’re getting random errors or crashes that you can’t pinpoint. The BIOS may not be your problem, but it’s an important step to take before moving on to more complicated (and costly) troubleshooting steps with your hardware.
A BIOS update caveat The wisdom that a BIOS update should be one of your first troubleshooting steps carries a small caveat, however. There’s a much higher chance your issue could be solved with a BIOS update if you’re using newer hardware, and there are a couple of keys reasons why.
First and most obvious is that new platforms aren’t perfect right out of the gate. You’ll see a barrage of BIOS updates shortly after a new motherboard releases, usually to improve memory compatibility. An often forgotten aspect of building a PC is that motherboards have only validated a certain set of memory sticks to work with the board, and these early BIOS updates are usually centered around broadening support.
It doesn’t matter when you built your PC, either. There’s a good chance the motherboard you buy is using the first BIOS revision it shipped with, which may not include support for your memory kit out of the gate. If you never bothered to update the BIOS and your PC starts acting up, that would be a good place to start troubleshooting.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The second reason is that we’re seeing much better platform longevity with modern CPUs and motherboards. Years ago, you would only see one or maybe two generations of CPUs supported by a motherboard, but that changed with AMD’s Ryzen processors.
You could take an older motherboard and upgrade it with a new CPU with socket AM4, and AMD is continuing that with its newer AM5 socket. Intel has dabbled in that support, as well, with motherboards released around its 12th-gen Alder Lake CPUs still supporting up to 14th-gen desktop processors. And this level of support is only possible through BIOS updates.
If you have an older PC that’s already been through its fair share of BIOS updates, the chances of one solving your issue are fairly low. For newer platforms, however, it should be high on your list of troubleshooting steps, especially if you’re pairing an older motherboard with a newer CPU.
But BIOS updates are scary Digital Trends I hear you — if BIOS updates are so important, why aren’t they more common? That’s because a BIOS update carries some amount of risk, and although that risk has been greatly diminished over the past several years, there’s still a chance you could ruin your PC. You need to flash a BIOS to a chip on your motherboard, and if that’s interrupted — say, by an unexpected power outage — you could be left with a corrupted BIOS that effectively bricks your PC.
It feels scary, even if it doesn’t need to be. As someone who reviews PC hardware, I’ve had to flash a new BIOS literally hundreds (maybe thousands?) of times, and never once have I bricked a motherboard. That’s coming from someone who has accidentally bent CPU pins half a dozen times, as well as ruined ports on motherboards due to negligence. I’ve made a lot of costly PC building mistakes, and even then, I’ve never bricked a motherboard.
The risk today is much lower than it used to be, too. In years past, if you corrupted your BIOS, you were out of luck. Multiple brands include some sort of recovery option now, however. This is usually a dedicated USB port on the board that can reflash a BIOS without anything but power to the motherboard. For Asus, it’s USB BIOS FlashBack, while Gigabyte has its Q-Flash Plus port. MSI also has a dedicated BIOS port on many of its motherboards. You need to have a motherboard with one of these features, but they’re becoming increasingly common.
A power outage is really your only concern with a BIOS update, and there are ways to protect against that happening. An inexpensive Uninterruptable Power Supply (UPS) will generally give you enough time to finish a BIOS update in the event you do lose power, and you can pick up a.
Essential troubleshooting You shouldn’t update your BIOS like you check your Windows updates or upgrade your GPU drivers.
You don’t need every version, and if your PC is humming along without a problem, there’s no reason to update your BIOS. On top of that, not every BIOS release is perfect, and new versions can actually cause issues if your PC is running fine otherwise.
That changes when you put on your troubleshooting hat, though, as a BIOS update should be one of the earliest troubleshooting steps you take. You might be surprised at the number of issues you can resolve with a BIOS update, particularly if you’re using a new platform or haven’t touched the BIOS since building your PC. At the very least, you can knock that off the troubleshooting list before moving onto hardware, where troubleshooting can get a lot more complicated and a lot more expensive.
If you’re updating your BIOS for the first time, make sure to read our our guide on how to update your BIOS.
 You’ll also want to keep materials from your motherboard vendor handy, as they usually have specific instructions for how you should perform a BIOS update depending on your motherboard.
Editors' Recommendations Upgrade your PC or start from scratch? Here’s our definitive guide on the question A typo is ruining this $700 Asus motherboard — but there’s a fix Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could Alan Wake 2 is proof that more PC games need a potato mode Apple Features Computing Hyte is challenging the status quo once again. The company, which quickly made it to the top of the list of best PC cases with its Y60, has a crazy new concept called the Y70 Touch. It's a PC case that has a built-in touchscreen, and although it's clearly a premium chassis choice, it's much more attainable than you might expect.
At $360, the Hyte Y70 Touch isn't just a premium case built exclusively for show floors. It's a real product, and although it's much more expensive than most PC cases, it's not out of the question for a high-end build.
Computing We've known for months that Alan Wake 2 will be one of the most demanding games on PC, but new details show just how taxing the upcoming title from developer Remedy will actually be. According to a now-deleted tweet from a Remedy employee, somewhere around 23% of PC players won't be able to play the game.
To be clear, the employee didn't say that number explicitly. In response to the outcry over the Alan Wake 2 system requirements, the employee shared that only cards with mesh shaders are officially supported, meaning any Nvidia 10-series or AMD RX 5000-series GPUs or older aren't officially supported.
Computing I've built hundreds of PCs. I'm not confident enough to say thousands yet, but I'm sure I'll hit that mark before too long. Every time I go to review a new graphics card or processor, I go through the process of tearing down and rebuilding PCs half a dozen times or more. And I've gained a lot of insight into the process during that time.
I don't sell the PCs I build -- I simply use them for evaluation -- but it's a process I engage in so often that it feels second nature. Here are five tips for building a PC that you won't find in a guide on how to build a PC.
Screws come with your case Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
