Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides All Word of Power locations in Alan Wake 2 By Jesse Lennox Close Alan Wake 2 splits its campaign up between the titular writer from the original game and a new character, FBI agent Saga. While the two play mostly the same, each one does have some bespoke elements. Aside from smaller touches like each having their own weapons and inventory , they also have different sets of collectibles to search out. While Saga needs to track down and solve things like Nursery Rhymes and open Cult Stashes , Alan’s hidden items, called Words of Power, are more in line with his profession. These are more concepts than actual, physical items to grab, and must be picked up in a unique way. Not only are they worth finding because they unlock a Trophy, but they also will help smooth out the difficulty curve since they serve as upgrades for Alan. Our words may not be as powerful as Alan’s, but they can still guide you to every Word of Power location in Alan Wake 2.
How Words of Power work All Words of Power locations How Words of Power work Words of Power are environmental objects that only Alan can interact with. While exploring his section, you will be able to hunt down these spots on the map and find a spiral of words written somewhere. To “collect” one, you simply need to shine your light on it from the right angle — your controller will vibrate to let you know you’re getting close.
Words of Power are divided into seven types, each of which offers three different upgrade options in different areas. Here’s each type and how they can improve Alan’s skills.
Word of Fix: upgrades health stats Word of Gun: upgrades weapon and ammo stats Word of War: upgrades weapon damages Word of Stuff: upgrades inventory space, shows resources on the map, or adds charges to your flashlight Word of Aid: upgrades flares and healing items Word of Action: upgrades damage done or lowers damage taken Words of Lamp: upgrades your torch abilities All Words of Power locations Like all collectibles in Alan Wake 2 , Words of Power are spread across each major zone you visit, with some only accessible later on, after you’ve made story progress or return before the game ends.
All Gold Ball locations in Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name All TV locations in Alan Wake 2 All nursery rhyme solutions in Alan Wake 2 Dark Place Words of Power Remedy Entertainment There are seven Words of Power to find in the first major zone you reach as Alan, but the last can’t be obtained until you come back after getting the door code that allows you into the Oceanview Hotel.
The first word you get is unmissable since it is part of your main objective. You will get a Word of Fix from above a door after you get your revolver and flashlight.
Taking the light in your lamp from the first word, backtrack down the alley to Caldera St. Station and use the light to illuminate a lamp above the staircase going up. This will unblock the path so you can get up to the roof and through a door. You should spot the yellow arrows directing you the rest of the way to the Word of Lamp.
In the northeast section of the map, where you find the sheriff, the word will be in the same room.
Head south from the sheriff and up some scaffolding on the other side of the street. This will turn you around and lead you to the Word of War between some air ducts.
Go south again, and power up the taxi with your light to transform it into a police cruiser. Enemies will spawn when you do this, so be ready. Go through the area they ambushed you from. The word is up on the wall.
After going down Draft Street, spin around and shine a light on this word on the underside of the bridge.
Go down to Wheeler Street and snag this Word from outside the Talk Show Studio by some garbage cans.
Subway Words of Power Remedy Entertainment The Subway also holds a ton of Words of Power — 10 in all this time.
Immediately after getting into the subway, you will use an Echo to change the environment. Once you do, the word will be on the train door.
Look across from the breakroom on the other side of a barricade for this word.
Take the light and carry it down the main tunnel and look behind a metal shelving rack.
After climbing the ladder out, spin around and duck under some construction. Look straight up to find this word.
Once you get inside the fire-damaged train, climb down the ladder, but not down the stairs. Instead, turn around and go around the corner. You need to destroy a wooden pallet to reveal the word.
Now you can go down the stairs and find the next word on the left wall behind a gate.
After reaching Shrine St. Station, head through the water and search the wall on the left.
Climb up into the train and scan the wall to the right to collect this word.
On the other side of Shrine St., the next word is almost impossible to miss as it’s dead ahead.
On your way up the stairs and out, stop next to the break room and look through the closed fence for the word.
Oceanview Hotel Words of Power Remedy Entertainment There are only three Words we need to collect from the hotel.
On the second floor, enter room 224 and break the wooden plank to enter the bathroom and get the word.
While going through the hall, check for a glass panel above a door on your left. Through it, you can snag this sneaky word.
Take a break at the bar and look straight up to collect one more word.
Poet’s Cinema Words of Power Remedy Entertainment Our final three Words are in the Poet’s Cinema.
Once you locate the break room, go up the stairs and look at the wall behind a standing lamp.
Once on the roof, go to the spotlights and look down in the corner below a window.
Finally, the last word is plastered on the big water tower.
Editors' Recommendations Alan Wake 2 studio is rebooting its upcoming multiplayer project All Lunchbox locations in Alan Wake 2 The best weapon upgrades in Alan Wake 2 Where to find all inventory upgrades in Alan Wake 2 All stash locations in Alan Wake 2 and how to open them Gaming Super Mario Bros. Wonder is taking the series back to its 2D roots with a new and exciting art style and a ton of new mechanics. Alongside new power-ups and badges, this title has perhaps the largest amount of collectibles and hidden secrets of any game in the series. Between all the Wonder Seeds, Wonder Flowers, Flower Coins, and more, there's no shortage of things to do as you run, jump, and flip your way through all the various worlds. Among all the playable characters to choose from, one non-playable character makes his triumphant return. Captain Toad has managed to make his way to the Flower Kingdom, but this intrepid explorer is not so easy to find. Each time you interact with him, he will reward you with some Flower Coins and a hint at an upcoming world, so let's hunt down all his locations in Super Mario Wonder.
All Captain Toad locations Captain Toad appears in five unique spots on the Super Mario Bros. Wonder world map. Talking to him at each spot will give you a little bit more of his story, plus the aforementioned rewards.
First Captain Toad location Gaming In the decades that the character of Spider-Man has existed, through comics, TV shows, games, and movies, he's gone through quite a few suits. Spider-Man 2 keeps the tradition alive by not only giving him a new suit to try out, but dozens and dozens of older ones to let you play as your favorite version of the webslinger. Oh, and did we mention Miles has his own extensive set of suits as well? Just like the first game, you won't be handed the keys to the wardrobe for free. Each suit not only needs to be unlocked but also crafted using City and Hero Tokens, as well as Tech parts to get access to the additional styles most suits have. If you're itching to dress up as the Spider-Man of your dreams as soon as you can, here is every suit in Spider-Man 2 and how you unlock them.
Note: Some suits are unlocked via story progress and could be considered spoilers. You have been warned.
All suits in Spider-Man 2 Gaming The opening sequence of Spider-Man 2 is a massive, technical showpiece of an encounter with the iconic villain Sandman, aka Flint Marko. Despite Peter and Miles thwarting the villain's rampage in the opening hours, his impact on the map -- and the game at large -- is far from over. Even after being sent away to prison on The Raft, Sandman has left behind mysterious crystals that are causing trouble all across the city. These become one of the many side activities you can participate in between main missions for some extra rewards like City Tokens. While they are all optional, completing each of these Marko's Memories activities does uncover a narrative about the troubled man and someone close to him that is well worth exploring. Besides, you will need to clean them all up if you want to fully complete the game anyway, so let's detail where you can find each of Marko's Memories in Spider-Man 2.
Where to find Marko's Memories There are 14 crystals scattered across the various boroughs of Spider-Man 2's New York, but just like with other collectibles like Prowler Stashes, you will have to wait for some to unlock as you make story progress. Additionally, the 14th and final memory won't be available until you've gotten all the others, and it leads to the quest's final objective. These will show up as an orange crystal on your map, but you can also spot them from all the sand they create around the area. When you approach one, you will need to fight a few waves of sand enemies before you can grab the crystal, crack it open, and hear the memory inside. Here's which borough you should be looking for them in, and how many there are in each.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
