Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features I wish I loved Alan Wake 2’s most creative gameplay feature By Jesse Lennox Close Among all the marketing material and features shown off leading up to Alan Wake 2 ‘s release, nothing got me more excited to return to Bright Falls than The Mind Place. More than the focus on survival horror, the mix of live-action and in-game cinematics, or simply getting to conclude a story I began over a decade ago, the idea of a metaphorical space in which I — or rather FBI agent Saga Anderson — could visualize and construct the clues I was collecting to piece together the darkly magical mystery presented captivated my imagination most.
What we ended up getting wasn’t quite what I hoped for. Created as a clever space where players could piece together the game’s driving occult case, the space doesn’t leave as much room for smart deduction as I’d hoped. For as much potential for this space had to elevate Alan Wake 2 on both a narrative and gameplay level, it felt like a missed opportunity during my playthrough that only slowed the sequel’s strong momentum.
Not quite a True Detective Creating a detective game where the player is an active participant in solving a mystery sounds like a nightmare to design. On one hand, the designers need to provide all the clues to reach the correct solution, while simultaneously making it neither too obvious nor obscure to solve. Lean too far in either direction and the player will either feel unsatisfied and potentially pandered to, or frustrated and betrayed. It is a task few games attempt, and even fewer manage to pull off.
Enter Alan Wake 2 and the bold decision to introduce a second main character in Saga Anderson alongside the titular writer. Considering this was a deliberate creative decision, as well as creating an entirely new mechanic in the Mind Place specifically for Saga and her investigation, I had high hopes that Remedy had come up with a new and interesting way to involve the player in solving the game’s mystery.
Early impressions of seeing the big corkboard with clues strung together had me eager to experiment with how I could lay out evidence, draw connections, and make tentative deductions until I got new information that would completely reshape my sprawling cobweb of notes.
Remedy Entertainment The reality of the Mind Place is far less exciting. I’m not an active participant in solving a mystery, but merely going through the motions of watching someone else piece it together. Clues can only be placed into a specific spot, with no room for players to make guesses as to where things belong. If players get clues related to a story thread Saga doesn’t have yet, they simply aren’t allowed to place them at all until the time is right.
What makes it even more tedious is how painfully obvious the game makes placing these clues. It feels like I’m given a handful of blocks and asked to put the square into the square hole to continue. There’s no deduction required here and not much satisfaction from sticking a clue in the right place. It’s a normal plot codex in a game menu but with more work required to assemble it.
It also doesn’t help that the case board is an awkward mess to control on PS5.
 The zoom levels feel way too tight or distant, sliding clues around is slippery, and the cursor can easily get lost off-screen. Rather than be a helpful way to get a nice overview of the case, it’s difficult to read without fumbling to zoom in and out on each individual section spread out across the entire wall.
Remedy Entertainment Deductions are the worst offender in my eyes. At certain points, the game will come to a screeching halt and prompt you to make a deduction before you can continue the plot. When this happens, you are forced to go into the Mind Place and “perform” a deduction. I say “perform” because there’s no actual interaction or input needed from the player. All you do is select the only option available, Saga magically intuits some key piece of information, and then the game allows you to move forward. It’s an unnecessary, pace-slowing task that doesn’t leave me feeling like a detective.
The Mind Place is a noble concept and I applaud Remedy for creating such a creative way to put players in the center of a mystery that would otherwise be told through dialogue or static logs. It just never quite reaches its potential as a detective system. I yearned to piece together the mysteries of Bright Falls for myself, but the Mind Place made sure I could never get one step ahead of the story.
Alan Wake 2 is out now on PS5 , Xbox Series X /S, and PC.
Editors' Recommendations Alan Wake 2 studio is rebooting its upcoming multiplayer project Alan Wake 2 on PC is an embarrassment of riches S.T.A.L.K.E.R 2: Heart of Chornobyl: release date predictions, trailers, gameplay Alan Wake 2 is more True Detective than Twin Peaks New Alan Wake 2 trailer revealed along with October release date Features Gaming Remedy Entertainment has released a new road map for the projects the company is currently on, including what is most likely a sequel to 2019's Control, code-named Heron. According to Remedy, Heron is a "bigger" game set in the Control universe and is currently in the concept and prototyping stage.
Since Remedy is also working on a spinoff game of Control, code-named Condor, Heron's scale suggests that it is most likely a sequel. Condor is continuing along in the proof-of-concept stage.
Gaming Remedy Entertainment released a heap of Alan Wake news today, in celebration of the series' 12th anniversary. For starters, Alan Wake Remastered will come to Nintendo Switch later in 2022. In addition, the studio has announced a partnership with AMC for the Alan Wake TV show, and revealed that it will not be releasing a trailer for Alan Wake 2 this summer.
Alan Wake Remastered -- which launched for PS4, PS5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, and PC in 2021 -- is in development for Nintendo Switch and will launch digitally for the platform in fall 2022. Remedy explains the game will run on the console natively (as opposed to via the cloud). The company said it will provide an update on the Switch version "in the coming months." Gaming Control developer Remedy Entertainment made a surprise appearance at this year's Game Awards to announce a sequel to the cult-hit game Alan Wake. Simply titled Alan Wake 2, the game is set to release in 2023.
Alan Wake 2 Reveal Trailer | Game Awards 2021 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
