Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Which class should you pick in The Finals? By Jesse Lennox Close Before you can jump into the spotlight and start competing in the twisted gameshow-style shooter that is The Finals, you will need to pick what type of character you will play as. While this title stands out for its fast and fluid movement and sports-style presentation, it does follow plenty of familiar trends of other competitive shooters , including multiple classes. Being focused on teams of three, it makes sense then that there are three class types to choose — Light, Medium, and Heavy. Your choice of class not only changes up what your character looks like, but also what specialization, weapon, and gadgets you can use. Plus, knowing how your class functions best will make you a much more valuable asset to your team. Here’s which class you should pick when competing in The Finals.
Light class Medium class Heavy class Light class Embark Studios Starting from the lightest and working our way up, we have the fast but squishy Light class. Your character is the most sleek and hardest to hit of the bunch, but also the lowest health to compensate. Your choice of weapons consists of pistols, an SMG, a rifle, a shotgun, and a sword, so this class requires you to get up close and personal to deal damage.
For specializations, you have three options to support this aggressive playstyle. Cloak makes you invisible if standing still, but harder to see while in motion. Grappling Hook, well, is exactly that. Dash lets you pull off a quick juke to close gaps or dodge incoming fire. Gadgets-wise, you have access to the suite of grenades, some sensors, a stun gun, and more.
Medium class We recommend starting with the Medium build first to get a feel for how the game feels at a “normal” level. This class is balanced in basically all regards, including size, speed, and health. Your weapon options are much more versatile and let you play with range more, including a revolver, shotgun, assault rifle, and grenade launcher. This class can be thought of almost as a support role for the team, which makes more sense when we talk about its specializations.
For special abilities, Medium builds get a Healing Beam that can heal teammates, a Guardian Turret that automatically fires at enemies, and Recon Senses to temporarily make opponents visible through cover. Notable gadgets include a zipline, mines, jump pad, and defibrillator.
Heavy class Embark Studios Finally, we come to the big boy of the trio, the Heavy. This class may feel sluggish, but with a massive health pool and massive firepower, they are perfect for locking down objectives. You aren’t just a bullet sponge as a Heavy, but also the most dangerous killer with insane damage output. Just remember that you’re a big target and can’t move through open areas as easily. Stick with your team and choose smart paths to make the most use of this class. On the weapons front, you’re looking at LMGs, a shotgun, a grenade launcher, a sledgehammer, and even a flamethrower.
Heavy abilities are focused on either an aggressive or defensive style, giving you some room to tailor the class to your preferences. Charge ‘N’ Slam is your offensive choice, allowing you to dash forward and break through any obstacle in your way, or can be used in the air to slam straight down. The Goo Gun is the opposite and lets you spray orbs of goo that you can build little temporary barriers with. Mesh Shield equips you with a holographic-looking shield to deflect any incoming damage from the front, but still lets you and your teammates fire through it. The Heavy build’s gadgets are almost all explosive, such as an RPG, grenades, mines, and C4, but it also has a dome shield for variety.
Editors' Recommendations Modern Warfare 3 Zombies: Mercenary Convoy guide How to rank up fast in Modern Warfare 3: best ways to farm XP Will Payday 3 get an offline mode? All weapons in Payday 3 and how to unlock them Best talents to unlock in Immortals of Aveum Gaming Some RPGs with multiple races don't limit you too much depending on which you choose to play, but most RPGs also don't have 11 choices as Baldur's Gate 3 does. Your race will obviously be a massive cosmetic choice, with your choices ranging from normal Humans to scaly Dragonborn and stout Dwarfs, but the effects of this choice will ripple throughout your playthrough. Your race can have a huge impact on the various stories in Baldur's Gate 3 since some characters will react to your race differently, but you'll never know how that will play out until you come across them. What we can help you with when creating your character is selecting the best race to pair with your class in Baldur's Gate 3.
Elf The Elf is typically seen as a ranger or a more dexterous race, which holds true for Baldur's Gate 3. They come with two extra stats in Dex and are proficient with both long and shortwords, as well as long and shortbows. They also have two important traits, the first being Darkvision which lets you see up to 12 meters in the dark. The second is Fey Ancestry which gives them a bonus to saving throws when they are being charmed, plus can't be put to sleep using magic. This is a great race to pair with a Ranger or Rogue class.
Tiefling Gaming The world of Dungeons & Dragons, which is of course where Baldur's Gate 3 comes from, is all about choice and crafting your own story through the world. Baldur's Gate 3 promises plenty of ways to alter the story, including a reported 1,700 different ending permutations. But the first and most important decision you make will be which class your main character is. Along with your race, your class is what will define how your character plays, including what roles they are best suited for and what abilities they can learn in and out of combat. With 12 to pick from at the start, plus 48 total subclasses within those main 12, it can feel like an overwhelming choice to make so early. To make things easier, we'll break down all the classes in Baldur's Gate 3 to help you decide which one to pick.
All Baldur's Gate 3 classes Barbarian The Barbarian is likely the easiest class to wrap your head around just based on the name. This class focuses primarily on the Strength stat and is all about melee damage. They are proficient with light and medium armor, shields, simple and martial weapons, plus get the unique Rage class action. When you enter the Rage state, you deal more damage and can survive fatal wounds. Their saving throws are linked to the Strength and Constitution stats.
Gaming Despite having a dinosaur-focused IP in its pocket, Capcom decided against reviving the old Dino Crisis series and instead launch a new dino-blasting IP in the form of Exoprimal. This multiplayer-focused third-person shooter is about as far from the survival horror-style Dino Crisis as you can get. Teaming up with squads of five to mow down unspeakable numbers of dinosaurs with guns, explosives, and melee weaponry. Naturally, no normal human could hope to survive such an onslaught, which is why you will don one of several Exosuits to grant you different weapons and abilities.
Split between three classes, Assault, Tank, and Support, there are three suits in each class to pick from, with Assault having one extra at four. If that wasn't enough to wrap your head around, each specific Exosuit also has a variant to add even more variety. Picking a class is one thing, but each suit within that class is also going to impact your strengths and weaknesses, as well as how you fit into your team's composition. If you're ready to suit up and take down a couple hundred dinos, here are the best Exosuits for each class in Exoprimal.
Best Assault Exosuit Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
