Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best flip phones in 2023: 7 picks we think you’ll love By Jesse Hollington and Jackie Dove Close There was a time when the classic flip phone was the first thing that came to mind when you thought of a cell phone — before the smartphone era ushered in the rectangular glass, metal, and plastic slabs we've come to know and love. Nevertheless, the venerable flip design lives on not only in classic feature phones, but it's making a comeback in modern smartphones that have reimagined the concept to create powerful devices with fun and compact designs. As such, keeping track of the best flip phones in 2023 makes more sense than you may think! The feature flip phones of today still hearken back to their pre-smartphone counterparts, focusing on basics like calls and texting while providing battery life that's measured in days instead of hours. They're reasonably priced, very pocketable, often much more durable, and make a great option if traditional voice calls are your primary reason for carrying a cell phone.
However, there's also good news for folks who want the best of both worlds — the more compact size a flip phone offers with the powerful features of a modern smartphone. New designs such as Samsung's Galaxy Z Flip 5 and Motorola's Razr Plus meld the concept of classic flip phones with gorgeous touchscreens and all the power that Android has to offer. Whether you just want something cheap and compact for making calls or you're looking for a productivity powerhouse, one of the best flip phones on our list will have you covered.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More Joe Maring / Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 Best flip phone overall No more gap when folded shut Extremely well-built Hinge feels outstanding Much more useful cover screen Fantastic performance Good and dependable cameras 5 years of updates The crease is still there Mediocre battery life Cover screen requires lots of tweaking Why you should buy this: It's one of the most powerful Android smartphones on the market in a unique, durable, and fun package.
Who it's for: Anyone who wants a capable, pocket-sized flip phone.
Why we chose the Galaxy Z Flip 5 : Samsung has been hitting it out of the park with its Galaxy Z Flip series, and this year's Flip 5 takes everything that was great about its predecessor and makes it even better, refining the design and user experience in small but meaningful ways.
The Galaxy Z Flip 5 takes what was already a nearly flawless combination of design, performance, and durability and takes it up a notch. The new Flex Hinge is now close to perfect — an important feature in a phone that you'll be flipping open and shut several dozen times a day — and the build quality is even more solid, with Gorilla Glass Victus 2 on the screens, Samsung's Armor Aluminum frame on the outside, and sturdy, precision-engineered buttons.
On the inside, you get a 6.7-inch AMOLED 2X display with a resolution of 2640 x 1080 pixels and a 120Hz refresh rate that's brighter than ever, so you'll have no problem seeing it outdoors. However, you won't need to worry about that nearly as often since the Z Flip 5 now boasts an expansive 3.4-inch Super AMOLED 720 x 748-pixel cover screen that can show you almost everything you'll need to see at a glance. It's so big, in fact, that you can run full Android apps on the Flip 5 cover screen...
 after a bit of tweaking, that is.
However, there's more to the Galaxy Z Flip 5 than just it's fun design. Samsung has packed in the same Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chipset that powers the rest of its flagship 2023 smartphone lineup, which means you're getting the performance of a Galaxy S23 Ultra in a much more compact package.
The camera system can't compare to the S23 Ultra, of course, but it's no slouch, with a pair of 12-megapixel (MP) wide and ultrawide cameras on the outside plus a 10MP selfie camera on the main display. Sadly, you don't get a telephoto camera, but the Flip 5 sort of makes up for that with some cool features. Flex Mode, for example, lets you sit the half-folded phone up at a right angle, with one app opened in the top half of the screen and a control panel opened at the bottom. There's also FlexCam, which lets you take hands-free selfies using the main camera and cover screen.
With the most powerful smartphone processor on the market today, a great camera experience, and fantastic build quality, Samsung's Galaxy Z Flip 5 easily retains its predecessor's crown as the best premium folding smartphone for most people in 2023.
More Joe Maring/Digital Trends Motorola Razr Plus Best flip phone runner-up Viva Magenta color looks incredible Water and dust resistance Game-changing cover screen Super-minimal display crease Excellent performance Lovely software experience Mediocre cameras One-day battery life Wired charging capped at 30W Why you should buy this: An excellent cover screen, top-notch performance, and a collection of vivid colors make this a solid choice for those who prefer an alternative to the world of Samsung devices.
Who it's for: Folks who want a flip phone with a fun and whimsical design that also offers a clean and versatile software experience and are willing to make a few trade-offs on the camera side to get it.
Why we chose the Motorola Razr Plus : The Motorola Razr Plus features a stunning design, with a Viva Magenta version that looks downright gorgeous, plus a color-matched vegan leather finish on the back, but it doesn't stop there.
With a Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 inside — Qualcomm's premium late-2022 mobile platform — it easily holds its own against nearly any other flagship smartphone on the market when it comes to performance, and it also offers one of the cleanest and most effortless software experiences you'll find outside of Google's "pure Android" Pixel phones, making it a joy to use.
Motorola has also pulled out all the stops in giving the Razr Plus an incredible cover screen experience, putting in a 3.6-inch pOLED HDR10+ display with a 1066 x 1056-pixel resolution and a 144Hz refresh rate. That's enough to watch movies and play games if you're willing to squint a bit, and unlike Samsung's Z Fip 5 cover screen, Motorola lets you run any Android app on it without the need to jump through complicated hoops. It's the best cover screen you can get in a foldable right now in size, quality, and versatility.
Flip open the Razr Plus and you'll find a 6.9-inch pOLED display with a resolution of 2640 x 1080 pixels, 1,400 nits of peak brightness, HDR10+ support, and an impressive 165Hz refresh rate. Plus, while middle-of-the-screen creases are an inevitable price to pay in foldable smartphones right now, Motorola has somehow done a great job in making the Razr Plus crease much less noticeable than the competition.
Unfortunately, the Razr Plus falls down a bit it in the camera department. While the camera specs are impressive on paper — you get a 12MP primary and 13MP ultrawide duo on the outside and 32MP selfie on the inside — the results you'll get aren't nearly as consistent as other smartphones in its class, proving the megapixels aren't everything.
It's not a bad camera system, but you're definitely making some tradeoffs here, and there's no doubt the Galaxy Z Flip 5 will give you more confidence that every photo will turn out great. However, if getting the very best possible photos from your smartphone is your top priority, you may need to stick with traditional flagships like the Galaxy S23 Ultra, as it's hard to find any flip phone that can compete with the best camera phones.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Alcatel Go Flip 3 Best basic flip phone Feature phone Simple to use 4G LTE compatibility No smart features Weak camera Why you should buy this: No-nonsense service at a reasonable price.
Who it's for: People who want the basics with a splash of style will love the popular model.
Why we chose the Alcatel Go Flip 3: As one of the most popular flip-phone models, the Alcatel Go Flip 3 offers an easy-to-use interface and intuitive keypad design for dialing and navigation. Powered by KaiOS , and sporting a 4G LTE connection, you can use this phone for email, calendar, web surfing, and, of course, calling and texting. It has a quad-core processor, built-in GPS, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth, and comes with 4GB of storage that can be expanded up to 32GB by adding your own SD card. There's a 2.8-inch display, as well as an external display that lets you preview incoming calls, notifications, and messages. The battery provides about 17 days of standby time, with eight hours of talk time. It has a 2-megapixel camera you can use to capture still images and 720p HD video. All of this comes encased in a neat clamshell body. It's available for Boost Mobile, T-Mobile, and AT&T.
Image used with permission by copyright holder LG B470 Flip Phone Best pre-paid flip phone Simple to use Affordable No smart features or apps Why you should buy this: No-frills, prepaid flip phone does the job and provides long battery life.
Who it's for: AT&T customers who want a basic, low-cost, prepaid, easy flip phone.
Why we chose the LG B470: If you're looking for a flip phone with a few appealing extras, there's the LG B470 prepaid basic flip phone, offering a 1.3MP camera with zoom and customizable effects and built-in Bluetooth. It can even download and play multimedia files like video and music. The outer 0.98-inch display is monochrome, which helps extend its week-long battery life and lets you instantly read texts without having to actually flip it open. A colorful 2.2-inch main display is accompanied by an enhanced audio mode that augments high frequencies. A text-to-speech feature reads texts aloud, a benefit for folks with vision issues. It works on AT&T.
Jitterbug Jitterbug Flip2 Cell Phone for Seniors Best flip phone for seniors Great for seniors Easy to use Amazon Alexa Still limited in smart features Why you should buy this: This easy-to-use phone delivers all the services needed for the elderly, infirm, or tech newcomers.
Who it's for: This phone is designed for and directly appeals to older folks who may need medical services and those who are not technical.
Why we chose the Jitterbug Flip2 Cell Phone for Seniors: Heavily advertised and promoted as the preferred phone for seniors, the Jitterbug Flip2 has numerous features that appeal to all cellphone newcomers and people who prefer a simpler, more limited device. The Flip2 sports a large screen, big buttons, a powerful speaker, a simple list-based menu, and Amazon Alexa to make navigating the phone and placing calls a breeze.
It's been developed in partnership with Lively, so it won't work on other carriers, but the companion service provides a number of nice extras, including a dedicated urgent response button to summon help in an emergency, plus access to doctors, nurses, and caregiver tools. It has U.S.-based live customer service with no long-term contracts, so you can change plans anytime. Select from a minutes plan and Health & Safety Package — unlimited talk and text cost $20 per month. Lively has also teamed up with Lyft to provide a car service where an operator can help schedule a ride, day or night. It comes in gray or red.
More Kyocera Kyocera DuraXE Epic Best rugged flip phone Durable and strong Big, easy to press buttons Waterproof Limited internal storage Weak camera Why you should buy this: Kyocera is an old hand in the cell phone arena and offers a small yet mighty flip phone to accompany you on your journeys to work or play.
Who it's for: Folks who want a small, pocketable phone that can withstand rigorous conditions.
Why we chose the Kyocera DuraXE Epic: A rugged flip phone that can survive some tough environments, Kyocera's DuraXE Epic for AT&T promises to keep your connection live and easy to hear. This hardy specimen is military-grade waterproof, dustproof, shockproof, and can withstand drops onto solid concrete from a height of five feet. Its chamfered corners and reinforced hinge provide the ultimate protection and durability. It has 16GB of internal storage with a MicroSD card slot that allows you to add up to 512GB more capacity. Recessed sides and textured panels provide a secure grip, while loud 100+dB front-facing speakers deliver clear sound with dual-mic noise cancellation for noisy surroundings. You get over nine hours of talk and 16 and 18 days of standby time, as well as Bluetooth and Wi-Fi.
Image used with permission by copyright holder ZTE Cymbal Z-320 Flip Phone Best cheap flip phone Good price FM radio Simple feature phone Weak camera No smart features Why you should buy this: This is a basic phone that covers all the bases at a reasonable price.
Who it's for: Anyone looking for a good performing flip phone that won't break their bank account.
Why we chose the ZTE Cymbal Z-320 Flip Phone: A moderately-priced, compact flipper, the ZTE Cymbal Z-320, unlocked and LTE-enabled, has some cool features. Start with a 2.8-inch main display and 1-inch external OLED display and pile on a modest 2MP camera and camcorder for the pocketable basics, accompanied by Bluetooth 4.1 and FM radio. It’s easy to use — the phone's large buttons facilitate swift, accurate texting. When it comes to yakking, you get up to 15.5 hours of talk time and 195 hours of standby time.
Frequently Asked Questions Long battery life is one of the biggest advantages of a traditional flip phone. While most smartphones need to hit the charger every night, the battery on a feature phone can last for a week or longer without a charge. Since they don't need to show as much information or play high-definition movies and games, flip phones can use smaller and more durable screens than their all-glass smartphone counterparts. This makes them ideal for folks who want to ensure they can stay connected on long trips or work in remote areas under challenging conditions.
If you’re truly old school and believe phones should strictly be for making calls and not surfing Facebook, then a feature flip phone is for you. You’ll be able to focus on your call instead of spending time and battery life on social media apps or games. When you’re not on a call, your flip phone stays mainly offline and hidden from location services, beacons, and spyware. Plus, most flip phones don’t store or send personal data, so most hackers won’t bother with them compared to the wealth of data found in smartphones.
If you’re concerned with phone call quality, don’t worry — a good flip phone will give you a perfectly clear call experience. Some include Bluetooth capabilities so that you can use wireless earbuds and headsets with them. More traditional flip phones are especially loved by older customers because they don’t have to learn how to navigate through all of the different features, options, and pesky touch and swipe screen controls; most flip phones use traditional buttons to make calls and write messages.
However, there's a whole new generation of flip phones that will appeal to folks with more modern tastes, adapting powerful Android smartphones into a novel folding form factor with dual screens and catchy designs. These latest flip phones are full-featured smartphones in a more compact package, making them ideal for the smallest pant or shirt pocket. Battery life may be a bit shorter than what you're used to in modern flagships, as the more compact size leaves less room for larger batteries. The foldable design is still novel and something that's appealing to a younger generation who weren't around the first time flip phones like the Motorola Razr hit the market. Modern flip phones like Samsung's Z Flip 4 also come in a wide array of colors to attract younger buyers.
Ultimately, the novelty of the folding form factor is as good a reason as any to choose a flip phone, but by buying one of the latest releases, you're also getting excellent specs too, and while Motorola has tried its hand at reinventing its classic Razr design , it's Samsung that's clearly leading the folding phone revolution.
If you're an older customer looking for an easy-to-use phone — or you're buying a flip phone for an older family member — we recommend the Jitterbug Flip2, although any of the flip feature phones on our list should be relatively easy to set up and use. The Jitterbug Flip2 has a large, bright screen, a generous keypad, an earpiece that works with hearing aids, and a dedicated button to summon emergency help or car rides, a flashlight, and a camera.
Samsung's Galaxy Z Flip 5 is, hands-down, the best flip-style smartphone on the market right now. Samsung has slowly been revolutionizing the flip smartphone market, and it's come of age over the last couple of years. The 2021 Galaxy Z Flip 3 was already an impressive piece of kit, and its successors have taken that great design and run with it, adding faster chips, improved battery life with faster charging, and some nice design refinements.
Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deals you can buy now The best health and fitness apps for iPhone in 2023: 18 best ones The best phones in 2023: our 15 favorite smartphones right now I’d recommend these early Black Friday phone deals if you can’t wait The best Android phones in 2023: the 16 best ones you can buy Android Best Products Samsung Mobile Folding smartphones have taken the world by storm. Initially, they appeared futuristic and exciting. However, with time, they have been refined and improved to cater to everyday use. Their prices are gradually decreasing as the technology advances, but they still remain expensive purchases, making it crucial to make the right buying decision.
Currently, there are two types of folding smartphones available in the market. The first type resembles a regular non-folding phone, which can be unfolded into a larger tablet-like device. The second type is similar to the classic Motorola Razr clamshell phones, where a normal-sized phone can be folded in half to become more compact and pocketable. Although both use the same screen and hinge technology, they cater to different needs.
Mobile When you have the best iPhone, you pretty much have infinite possibilities for keepingbusy and entertained, no matter where you are. Sure, the iPhone may not be marketed as a gaming phone specifically, but it's pretty powerful — especially with the A17 Pro in the latest iPhone 15 Pro. That new processor means the Apple mobile gaming experience is only getting better and better, with Apple's new chip being able to play console-level games like Assassin's Creed Mirage and the Resident Evil 4 remake.
While those games aren't available yet, there's no shortage of great games to play. But when the App Store has over a million apps, how are you supposed to find the best games to play? Don't worry -- we're here to help! Since there are a ton of games out there — and not every game is a winner — it's definitely hard to find games that are worth your time and energy. Whether you're looking for a simple match 3, an MMORPG, a dungeon crawler, or even something to just relax with, here are the best iPhone games you can play right now.
Mobile Let's face it, a charger is probably the most important accessory you'll ever buy for your iPhone. After all, most of us need to charge our iPhones at least once a day — sometimes even more — so it's important to have the right chargers around to get the job done.
Thankfully, the popularity of the iPhone means there's no shortage of options for both wired and wireless charging — and you have even more now that the iPhone 15 has finally made the switch to USB-C.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
