Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best iPhone 15 screen protectors in 2023: 10 great buys By Jesse Hollington Close The iPhone 15 lineup has landed, boasting exciting new features like significantly improved cameras and brighter screens on the standard iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus and a sleek new titanium frame and powerful Action button for the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max.
As usual, Apple has equipped all of its iPhone 15 models with Ceramic Shield glass , which has proven tough enough to withstand most drops and impacts.
 This could lead you to believe you don't really need a screen protector, and you may be partially right — at least when it comes to protecting your screen against cracks. However, it's challenging to create glass that's both highly durable against impacts and resistant against scratches, and Apple's Ceramic Shield definitely leans toward the former.
This means that if you want to keep your iPhone 15 screen looking pristine and free from scratches, you should consider getting a good screen protector to put on it right out of the box. This is doubly true if you regularly carry your iPhone in a purse, backpack, or even a large pocket with other items that can scratch up the screen. Here's a list of some of the best iPhone 15 screen protectors available right now.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More Amazon Spigen GlasTR EZ FIT Tempered Glass Screen Protector The best overall screen protector for your iPhone 15 Solid protection Good case compatibility Easy installation kit included A bit pricey Spigen's awkwardly named GlasTR EZ Fit is one of the most consistently high-rated iPhone screen protectors you'll find -- and for good reason. Thanks to its lineup of svelte, yet durable and stylish cases, Spigen has become a trusted name in smartphone protection, and its tempered glass screen protectors only add to that reputation.
The GlasTR EZ Fit may not be the cheapest option on our list, but you're getting great value for your money, with a spare durable tempered glass protector and an installation kit that guarantees a smooth and bubble-free installation. In addition to providing the same shielding as other tempered glass, Spigen has also added an anti-dust nano coating to the front and bonded a polyethylene terephthalate (PET) base to the glass with an optically clear adhesive to improve impact absorption without sacrificing clarity.
Amazon Supershieldz Anti Glare Matte Tempered Glass Screen Protector The best anti-glare screen protector for your iPhone 15 Anti-glare matte finish is great for outdoor use Precision-cut tempered glass with rounded edges Case-friendly Not the most protective option on the list Supershieldz is a well-known name in affordable screen protectors, and this two-pack delivers the company's classic tempered glass to keep scratches away from your iPhone 15 screen. There are also 2.5D rounded edges so it won't scratch your fingers either. The 9H hardness also protects against everyday bumps, drops, and other impacts, and there's a hydrophobic and oleophobic coating to keep sweat and fingerprints from smudging up your screen.
What's particularly great about this particular package is that unlike most tempered glass screen protectors, these have a matte, anti-glare finish that makes your screen much easier to see in bright light. If you routinely use your iPhone outdoors, these screen protectors will be a great companion to the new 2,000-nit screen on the iPhone 15.
Amazon Mous Hybrid Glass Screen Protector The best film screen protector for your iPhone 15 Hybrid design adds greater shock absorption than tempered glass Smooth glass-like feel with great touch responsiveness A bit pricey Not as much clarity as pure tempered glass protectors While tempered glass screen protectors offer some of the best impact protection, they can be tricky to install properly, and once they start collecting scratches and cracks, you either have to live with them or swap in a new screen protector. This is why some folks prefer film-based protectors, although those have their downsides also and typically offer less protection. Thankfully, Mous has found a way to give us the best of both worlds in a hybrid protector that combines the clarity and smoothness of a glass screen protector with the non-shattering properties of film.
Mous accomplishes this by using glass reinforced with a TPU layer that provides a level of shock absorption that pure tempered glass protectors can't match. This means it won't shatter or crack as quickly or easily as pure glass protectors, yet it still provides the same scratch resistance as tempered glass and a level of clarity that you won't find with standard film protectors.
Amazon Caseology Snap Fit Tempered Glass Screen Protector The best easy-install screen protector for your iPhone 15 Supereasy installation kit Case-friendly Tempered glass offers only basic protection against impacts As the name suggests, Caseology's Snap Fit screen protector is a cinch to install, thanks to the included kit that guarantees perfect alignment with the screen on your iPhone 15. Just peel the film, snap the tray on top of your iPhone, and follow the instructions for a seamless, bubble-free installation. The package also includes an extra glass screen protector, plus everything you need to ensure your iPhone's screen is clean and dust-free before putting on the screen protector.
However, while Caseology's tempered glass promises a smooth feel and great clarity, the company doesn't provide any specs on its hardness or impact resistance. While that means it's likely not the most protective option on our list, it should be enough to protect from everyday bumps and scrapes.
Zagg InvisibleShield Glass Elite The best glass screen protector for your iPhone 15 Extremely strong tempered glass Excellent scratch resistance Antimicrobial treatment prevents glass degredation Expensive Zagg has made a name for itself by providing premium screen protection, and its InvisibleShield Glass Elite lives up to that reputation with some of the toughest glass ever used in a commercial screen protector. Thanks to a unique aluminosilicate glass blend, this screen protector promises up to five times the protection of traditional tempered glass, and also employs Ion Exchange Technology for additional protection against scrapes and scratches.
While the InvisibleShield Glass Elite doesn't come cheap, it's worth considering if your someone who regularly fumbles with your iPhone or isn't too careful about tossing it into a bag or pocket with your keys or other sharp objects. The precision surface and reinforced edges offer top-notch scratch resistance, and an antibacterial treatment keeps away odor-causing agents that could cause the screen protector to deteriorate over time.
More Amazon Ailun Privacy Tempered Glass Screen Protector The best privacy screen protector for your iPhone 15 Protects your privacy from casual onlookers Case-friendly Front camera hole limits protection and can collect dirt Reduces screen brightness even when viewed directly If you're looking for glass that not only protects your iPhone 15 screen, but also your privacy, then Ailun's anti-spy screen protector is for you. In addition to offering hardened tempered glass with rounded edges, this screen protector will keep whatever is on your iPhone display safe from prying eyes, whether that's the person in the seat next to you on the bus or someone standing behind you in an elevator.
As with most privacy glass and film protectors, anybody looking at your iPhone from any angle other than head-on will just see a blank screen, but you'll also get less light coming through even when looking directly at your iPhone. While that's often caused some folks to avoid privacy protectors, the iPhone 15 thankfully offers a much brighter screen than ever before that should help to offset any light that's absorbed by the glass.
Amazon Mr. Shield Tempered Japan Glass Screen Protector The best budget screen protector for your iPhone 15 Extremely affordable Hardened Japan Glass Middling impact protection Even the best screen protectors aren't impervious to damage. After all, they're designed to protect your iPhone display by bearing the brunt of impacts and scratches. That's why many come with more than one piece of glass or film in the package. If you live an adventurous (or clumsy) lifestyle that has you regularly swapping out cracked or badly scratched glass, or you simply want to keep your screen looking unblemished, then this Mr. Shield pack is for you.
This three-pack of screen protectors comes in at an affordable enough price that you can stock up and put a fresh new piece of glass on your iPhone 15 much more often. However, don't let the low price fool you; these are still made from tempered ballistic Japan Glass with a 9H hardness, meaning they offer the same level of protection against bumps and scrapes as any other standard tempered glass screen protector, plus excellent clarity and an oleophobic coating to keep fingerprints and smudges at bay.
Amazon Torras Diamond Shield Tempered Glass Screen Protector The best rugged screen protector for your iPhone 15 Great impact protection with hardened tempered glass Easy to install with included kit A bit pricey Those with especially active lifestyles will appreciate the top-notch protection that the Torras Diamond Shield offers for the iPhone 15. While it's not actually made out of diamonds, this screen protector users CSG glass that's commonly found in military applications, plus triple ion exchange technology to deliver protection that's four times stronger than what you'll find in most other tempered glass screen protectors.
This allows Torras to boast military-grade shatterproof protection for the Diamond Shield, but it also goes beyond that with EdgeForce technology that's designed to cover the weak spots in Apple's Ceramic Shield to bolster the great protection your iPhone 15 screen already packs in. There's also an advanced oleophobic coating that's been tested to reduce fingerprints and other smudges by up to 95% in daily use, and the package comes with two screen protectors and a kit for a properly aligned and bubble-free installation that's almost effortless.
Amazon amFilm OneTouch Tempered Glass Screen and Camera Lens Protector The best value screen protector for your iPhone 15.
Includes camera lens protection Easy installation with full kit Very affordable Drop protection is only average While most screen protector kits cover only the front of your iPhone 15, there are two other pieces of glass around back that often go uncovered by most cases. Those are your camera lenses, of course, and this is where amFilm's OneTouch kit provides something extra by giving you two tempered glass screen protectors and a pair of glass camera lens protectors.
It comes with a full installation kit to ensure perfect alignment and no unsightly and annoying bubbles, which makes the amFilm OneTouch a great value for its price. The tempered glass offers the standard level of protection that should cover most people's day-to-day needs, while the rear lens covers help keep your cameras safe from scratches and impacts.
Amazon OtterBox Premium Pro Glass Blue Light Antimicrobial Screen Protector The best all-around protection for your iPhone 15 Offers antimicrobial protection and blue light filtering Excellent drop protection Easy installation Expensive Otterbox has become a household name in smartphone protection thanks to its extremely rugged and durable cases, but what many people don't know is that the company also offers a lineup of premium screen protectors that offer the same defense for the front of your iPhone.
While the Otterbox Premium Pro glass screen protector doesn't come cheap, that's because it not only protects your iPhone screen against scratches, scrapes, and six-foot drops, but also packs in an antimicrobial coating and blue light filtering to protect your skin and eyeballs while you're using your iPhone 15. Naturally, you also get flawless touch response and excellent clarity, plus warmer colors thanks to the elimination of blue light.
More Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deals you can buy now The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones The best health and fitness apps for iPhone in 2023: 18 best ones I’d recommend these early Black Friday phone deals if you can’t wait The best iPhone 15 cases in 2023: our 16 favorites Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Best Products Mobile When you have the best iPhone, you pretty much have infinite possibilities for keepingbusy and entertained, no matter where you are. Sure, the iPhone may not be marketed as a gaming phone specifically, but it's pretty powerful — especially with the A17 Pro in the latest iPhone 15 Pro. That new processor means the Apple mobile gaming experience is only getting better and better, with Apple's new chip being able to play console-level games like Assassin's Creed Mirage and the Resident Evil 4 remake.
While those games aren't available yet, there's no shortage of great games to play. But when the App Store has over a million apps, how are you supposed to find the best games to play? Don't worry -- we're here to help! Since there are a ton of games out there — and not every game is a winner — it's definitely hard to find games that are worth your time and energy. Whether you're looking for a simple match 3, an MMORPG, a dungeon crawler, or even something to just relax with, here are the best iPhone games you can play right now.
Mobile Let's face it, a charger is probably the most important accessory you'll ever buy for your iPhone. After all, most of us need to charge our iPhones at least once a day — sometimes even more — so it's important to have the right chargers around to get the job done.
Thankfully, the popularity of the iPhone means there's no shortage of options for both wired and wireless charging — and you have even more now that the iPhone 15 has finally made the switch to USB-C.
Mobile Apple raised the bar again at its latest fall event. The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max are the two new top ways to experience Apple's smartphone world. These are the greatest iPhones available, with all of the new features and — excitingly for anyone who travels with a laptop or iPad — a USB-C port at the bottom. The iPhone 15 Pro is the phone to get if you want strong performance paired with a more manageable 6.1-inch display, and many would argue it's the perfect blend of size and power.
The iPhone 15 Pro is easier to handle than the iPhone 15 Pro Max. However, it’s crucial to protect your device from accidental drops and scratches, especially since it is an expensive phone that costs $1,000. Luckily, you can easily safeguard your investment by using a protective case that can withstand the usual hazards of daily use, such as bumps and scratches. We offer a wide range of case options to choose from, including slim cases and rugged cases for maximum protection. Take a look, and you’re sure to find something you’ll love.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
