Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best prepaid cell phone plans in 2023: the 7 best ones By Jesse Hollington Close Joe Maring / Digital Trends There was once a time when prepaid cell phone plans meant getting only basic calling features and limited data. Thankfully, that’s changed. Many of today’s prepaid plans offer many of the same core features of the best cell postpaid phone plans, including high-speed 5G data , unlimited calling and texting, and even international roaming — all without the need to commit to a contract.
Best overall value and experience Best value prepaid phone plan Best budget prepaid phone plan Best prepaid phone plan for perks Best prepaid phone plan for families Best prepaid phone plan for light users Best prepaid phone plan for travelers Not only that, but you can often find prepaid plans at far lower prices, even if you’re only setting up a single line. While traditional carrier plans give their best discounts for families and other groups, many prepaid plans lead with their best price right out of the gate.
Plus, since today’s prepaid plans run on the big three carrier networks, you’ll enjoy the same great coverage and reliability as if you signed up directly with T-Mobile, Verizon, or AT&T. The only catch is that your speeds may sometimes be throttled to give right-to-way to those carriers’ own customers. However, with the capacity offered by modern 5G networks, that happens a lot less often than you might think in most places.
The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now The best phone plans for one person in 2023: our 6 favorites Nevertheless, with so many prepaid plans out there, it can be a challenge to figure out which is the best for your needs. We’ve rounded up a few of the best choices and highlighted what each offers to help you decide. Let’s dive in.
Best overall value and experience Ultra Mobile Image used with permission by copyright holder Ultra Mobile allows you to stay connected with what matters most, thanks to free unlimited talk and text to over 90 international destinations. That way, if you have family in another country, you can still catch them up on everything happening in your life and check up on them whenever you want. Single and multi-month plans are available with free nationwide coverage, access to ultra-fast 5G networks, and high-speed 5G and 4G LTE data. Wi-Fi calling, texting, and free mobile hotspot access are also available.
They also operate on a buy more, save more principle, which means the more you spend with Ultra Mobile, the more you’ll save in the long run. For example, 1-month plans start at $15 per month, billed monthly, but if you pay for 12 months, that goes down to $10 per month, billed annually, saving you 33% off. There are similar discounts for all of Ultra’s other plans, including their Unlimited option. Single-month plans are also eligible for auto-renewal discounts, which net you roughly 10% off a monthly plan with auto-renewal.
Ultra Mobile is everything you need to keep in touch with friends, family, and communities, no matter how far. While most carriers limit your out-of-country communications or charge a hefty price, Ultra Mobile does not. You’ll even get free talk and text in Mexico and Canada, something that’s not available through most competitors.
All of this is available with no contracts or no term commitments. You’re free to come and go as you please. You can bring your own device or phone number if you would like, and Ultra has a best-in-class multi-lingual care team ready to help you through the sign-up process. Of course, account management is super easy and can always be done through the Ultra Mobile app or online. It’s one of the most affordable, international-friendly wireless carriers out there.
Learn More Best value prepaid phone plan Mint Mobile Unlimited Mint Mobile Since it runs on T-Mobile’s 5G Ultra Capacity network , Mint Mobile is one of the fastest and most reliable prepaid 5G plans available. However, it’s also one of those ironic situations where you’ll only get the best deal by making a longer-term commitment.
Unlike most prepaid plans, Mint Mobile doesn’t run month-to-month; instead, you prepay for a three-, six-, or 12-month package, and the longer the subscription, the greater the savings.
While you’ll need to shell out $360 for a year of service to get the best monthly price of $30/month for its Unlimited plan, new customers can also sign up for a three-month trial at that rate, paying only $90/month up-front. If you don’t want to commit to a whole year after that, you can sign up for three months for $120 ($40/month) or six months for $210 ($35/month). Mint Mobile also often has promos where you can lock in a few months at even lower rates — sometimes as low as $15/month.
Mint Mobile also makes it really easy to get up and running if you’re sporting a smartphone that uses an eSIM , such as a Samsung Galaxy S23 , iPhone 15 , or Google Pixel 8 , as you can sign up entirely online and have your plan active on your phone within minutes. However, even if you need a traditional SIM, Mint Mobile will send you one at no extra charge — you’ll just need to wait for it to arrive.
The Mint Mobile Unlimited plan still has a 40GB data cap, which means you’ll experience slower speeds if you use more than that in a month. The same is true for its 5GB, 15GB, or 20GB plans, so you can save a bit more money if you know you won’t need as much high-speed data on a regular basis. Mobile hotspot access is also included on all plans, although the Unlimited plan caps that at 10GB, which is odd considering that the 15GB and 20GB plans don’t have a separate mobile hotspot limit, so you may want to consider opting for one of those if you plan to tether a lot.
Best budget prepaid phone plan Visible Visible One of the great things about Visible is its focus on providing simple, no-nonsense plans to get you online with no hidden fees and a minimum of fuss. Choosing a plan on Visible is easy, as the prepaid carrier only offers two options: Visible and Visible+, both of which run on Verizon’s 5G network.
If you’re on a budget, Visible is the one to get. You’ll pay only $25 per month for 5G access, truly unlimited data, and no long-term commitment. It even includes light mobile hotspot capabilities and unlimited talking and texting to the U.S., Canada, and Mexico.
However, it’s worth noting that the standard Visible plan will only give you access to Verizon’s slower 5G Nationwide network, so you won’t get the fastest 5G speeds available. Don’t be scared away by that, though, as you should still be able to get up to 56Mbps — which is more than enough for surfing, streaming, and hanging out on social media.
Unlike most carriers, Visible doesn’t have a specific threshold where it will slow down your data speeds. Although mobile hotspot speeds are capped at 5Mbps and only allow for a single connected device, surfing from your smartphone will always operate at the fastest 5G speeds available on Verizon’s 5G Nationwide network. However, you may sometimes experience slowdowns during busier times of the day to make way for Verizon customers.
If you do want faster speeds, the $45/month Visible+ plan will give you access to Verizon’s faster 5G Ultra Wideband network, with 50GB of “premium” data at the fastest possible speeds each month, plus unlimited talk, text, and data roaming in Canada and Mexico.
Best prepaid phone plan for perks Metro by T-Mobile Unlimited T-Mobile As you can probably guess from the name, Metro by T-Mobile is the prepaid branch of the well-known “uncarrier.” This means you’re operating on T-Mobile’s expansive and fast 5G network , so you can rest assured that coverage won’t be a problem; T-Mobile recently announced that its 5G Ultra Capacity network now covers over 300 million people — that’s 90% of the U.S. population.
However, Metro isn’t the only prepaid carrier that uses the T-Mobile network, so what you’re really getting here over competing options is many of the same perks that T-Mobile postpaid customers can enjoy. For $50/month (with AutoPay discount), you get unlimited high-speed 5G data, 8GB of lower-priority mobile hotspot data, a 100GB Google One membership, and a one-year subscription to Vix Premium. Unlike most prepaid carriers, this price also drops if you sign up for multiple lines.
Metro by T-Mobile also still offers some “Heritage” plans that may be worth checking out if you’re looking for other perks, including one that includes an Amazon Prime membership. However, you’ll have to contact customer service or visit a store to sign up for these.
While Metro prepaid customers will have to make way for T-Mobile users, which could result in slowdowns during peak periods, that’s unlikely to be a problem in most places; there’s a reason why T-Mobile calls its fastest 5G network Ultra Capacity.
Best prepaid phone plan for families Cricket Unlimited Cricket Much like Visible is to Verizon and Metro is to T-Mobile, Cricket Wireless is AT&T’s prepaid subsidiary, and while it’s traditionally been a bit behind the curve with its data caps, it’s been catching up with the others. Its plans are particularly attractive for those who want good 5G speeds for the whole family.
At $50 with an AutoPay discount, the single-line unlimited plan isn’t anything to write home about. However, this drops to $80 for two lines ($40/line) or $100 for four ($25/line). You also get unlimited data on AT&T’s 5G+ network with no throttling other than the usual network prioritization for actual AT&T customers, plus free texting and calling to and roaming in Canada and Mexico.
As Cricket says, this is a “no-frills” plan, so you won’t get a mobile hotspot without paying for an extra add-on, but it does include unlimited texting to 37 countries and 2GB of cloud storage for your photos. You can also step up to the next tier for an extra $5/month for a single line or $30/month more for four lines to get 15GB of mobile hotspot data, 150GB of cloud storage, and a bundled Max with Ads subscription.
The biggest downside to Cricket Wireless is that you’re running on AT&T’s network, where you’ll get expansive but slow low-band 5G coverage but are much less likely to find yourself taking advantage of its fastest 5G+ service. This could make throttling a bigger problem, depending on where you live and how many AT&T customers are online at any given time.
Best prepaid phone plan for light users Tello Tello Tello can save you a bundle if you’re looking for a very affordable plan and only need basic connectivity for calls and light data usage. For only $10/month, you can get a basic plan that provides 1GB of data and unlimited calling and texting to over 60 countries.
While that’s not a lot of data, it’s enough to ensure you can receive emails and messages while you’re out and about and even engage in some light music streaming, and you won’t need much more than that if you spend most of your time on Wi-Fi. Like most carriers, you won’t get cut off or charged more if you go over your allotment; things just slow down to “2G” speeds, which is enough to keep you connected to email and messaging services.
Since Tello’s plans are customizable and there are no contracts, you can also easily switch things up from month to month as your needs change. $14/month will get you 2GB of data, while you can go unlimited for $29/month. That higher tier isn’t necessarily competitive with the other options on our list, but it has the advantage that you can move up to that for a single month if you know you’re going to be out and about a lot in the summer and then step back down to the $10/month plan when you’re hunkering down at home base for the winter.
Tello also uses T-Mobile’s network , so you’ll get great 5G coverage nearly everywhere in the county. However, it goes without saying that you’ll be playing second-fiddle to T-Mobile’s higher-priority customers, so don’t expect the same mind-blowing speeds.
Best prepaid phone plan for travelers Google Fi Wireless Unlimited Google One of the best prepaid plans out there comes from an unlikely corner. Google, the company best known for things like search and Gmail, got into the mobile carrier business a few years ago, and it offers one of the best plans you can get if you’re a serious world traveler.
Google Fi’s Unlimited Plus plan runs on T-Mobile’s network in the U.S., which means you’ll get the best 5G speeds and coverage available on just about any other prepaid carrier. However, where it really distinguishes itself is in its roaming arrangements. Unlike most carriers, which will charge you more if you stray outside of North American coverage, Google Fi offers unlimited data in over 200 countries and regions around the world.
That means you’ll be able to get online almost anywhere you land without the hassle of switching out your SIM or adding a new eSIM. The unlimited data allotment is also the same across the board; you’ll merely be throttled to slower speeds after you’ve used 50GB in a given month, whether you’re using that data at home or abroad.
You also get unlimited standard cellular calls and texts in the U.S., Canada, and Mexico, Wi-Fi calling back to North America while traveling, 100GB of Google Drive storage and VPN service with Google One, and a year of YouTube Premium thrown in.
In addition to mobile hotspot data that allows for up to 10 Wi-Fi devices to join in, there’s full connectivity for your Google or Samsung smartwatch, such as the Google Pixel Watch 2 or Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 (as long as you’re using it with an Android device, of course), and the ability to share your data bucket with up to four tablets or other devices that use data-only SIMs at no extra charge.
Editors' Recommendations The best smartwatches in 2023: our 12 favorites The best health and fitness apps for iPhone in 2023: 18 best ones The best phones in 2023: our 15 favorite smartphones right now The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy The best Android phones in 2023: the 16 best ones you can buy Android Apple Android Apple AT&T Cellular Carriers Google T-Mobile Verizon Mobile When you have the best iPhone, you pretty much have infinite possibilities for keepingbusy and entertained, no matter where you are. Sure, the iPhone may not be marketed as a gaming phone specifically, but it's pretty powerful — especially with the A17 Pro in the latest iPhone 15 Pro. That new processor means the Apple mobile gaming experience is only getting better and better, with Apple's new chip being able to play console-level games like Assassin's Creed Mirage and the Resident Evil 4 remake.
While those games aren't available yet, there's no shortage of great games to play. But when the App Store has over a million apps, how are you supposed to find the best games to play? Don't worry -- we're here to help! Since there are a ton of games out there — and not every game is a winner — it's definitely hard to find games that are worth your time and energy. Whether you're looking for a simple match 3, an MMORPG, a dungeon crawler, or even something to just relax with, here are the best iPhone games you can play right now.
Mobile Let's face it, a charger is probably the most important accessory you'll ever buy for your iPhone. After all, most of us need to charge our iPhones at least once a day — sometimes even more — so it's important to have the right chargers around to get the job done.
Thankfully, the popularity of the iPhone means there's no shortage of options for both wired and wireless charging — and you have even more now that the iPhone 15 has finally made the switch to USB-C.
Mobile Apple’s iPhone has been around for well over a decade now, and it’s always a great choice for those who are looking for a smartphone. For years, there was only one iPhone model to choose from, so your only decision was how much capacity to get and whether you wanted it with a darker black/gray or a lighter white/silver finish. Today, the latest iPhone models come in multiple versions, making the choice between them a bit more complicated.
For example, the newest iPhone 15 lineup offers four different models to choose from. Plus, Apple still sells the older iPhone 14 and iPhone 13. Lastly, there’s the iPhone SE for folks looking for a small and affordable no-frills model — or those who still really like the traditional home button and Touch ID sensor.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
