Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Guides Does the iPhone 15 have a SIM card? By Jesse Hollington Close Apple The iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Pro were announced at Apple’s September 2023 event — and there’s a lot to like! All models now have the Dynamic Island, USB-C has officially replaced Lightning, and there are impressive camera upgrades across the board. But what’s the deal this year with the iPhone 15 and SIM cards? Does the iPhone 15 have a SIM card? The U.S. iPhone 15 only uses eSIM Does your carrier support eSIM? Last year, Apple made a subtle, but significant change to its iPhone 14 lineup.
 No, we’re not talking about the Dynamic Island or always-on display of the iPhone 14 Pro models, but rather the fact that Apple chose to eliminate the physical SIM card entirely on all U.S. iPhone 14 models.
It was the final step in a process that began four years earlier with the adoption of eSIM technology on the iPhone XS, iPhone XS Max, and iPhone XR. Rather than adding a second physical SIM slot, eSIM became Apple’s answer to dual-SIM support, letting you have more than one plan and number on a single iPhone.
 Two years ago, Apple quietly added a second eSIM to its iPhone 13 lineup , allowing customers to use a dual-SIM setup without needing a physical SIM card. Once that was in place, it was simply a matter of waiting for carriers to be ready to ditch physical SIM cards before Apple could eliminate the SIM slot entirely.
The iPhone’s futuristic satellite tech isn’t coming to Android any time soon These 5 iPhone 15 problems are annoying. Here’s how to fix them Apple used this free iPhone app to shoot Monday’s Scary Fast event So … what does that mean for the iPhone 15? Does the iPhone 15 have a SIM card? Apple When Apple took the physical SIM card slot out of the iPhone 14 last year, it was pretty clear that it wouldn’t be coming back. So, it’s no surprise that none of this year’s iPhone 15 models sport a physical SIM slot — at least in the U.S.
Internationally, the answer remains a bit more nuanced. Apple manufactures several versions of each of its iPhone models for use in different countries to accommodate different 5G frequencies and bands.
 For example, since the introduction of 5G on the iPhone 12 , only the model sold in the U.S. supports the fastest high-band mmWave frequencies ; other countries only get sub-6GHz 5G.
Similarly, only the U.S. models of the iPhone 14 eliminated the physical SIM slot last year, presumably because only U.S. carriers were ready to go all-in on eSIM. That hasn’t changed with the iPhone 15, so you’ll still get to use a physical SIM card if you purchase your iPhone outside of the U.S. Like the iPhone 13, those international models have two eSIMs, plus a place to insert a physical SIM card. Despite this, you can still only have two lines active at a time — either both eSIMs or a combination of an eSIM and physical SIM.
The U.S. iPhone 15 only uses eSIM Apple Like last year’s iPhone 14, those iPhone 15 models sold in the U.S. only use eSIM technology.
 This means the SIM card is embedded inside the phone (that’s what the “e” stands for) and provisioned directly through the iOS settings app.
If you’re purchasing an iPhone 15 in the U.S., whether directly from Apple or from your carrier, you’ll no longer get a physical SIM card to go along with it. Instead, you’ll transfer your line to your new iPhone or set up a new line directly with your carrier.
How this is done varies between carriers, but the big three U.S. carriers and many of the smaller ones offer the ability to assign an eSIM to your iPhone digitally at the time of purchase, so you may not need to worry about this at all if you purchase your iPhone 15 directly from your carrier. On the other hand, if you’re buying directly from Apple or another retailer, you’ll likely need to make a quick call to your carrier to get this set up.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Many international carriers and some of the regional ones in the U.S. use other eSIM activation methods that usually involve manually entering an activation code or scanning a QR code supplied by the carrier. You’ll still likely be able to do this without the need to go into a carrier store; usually, the process can be handled by a visit to your customer portal on your carrier’s website or through their mobile app.
Lastly, if you’re upgrading from an older iPhone, you may even be able to transfer your line directly to your new iPhone 15 without the need to contact your carrier at all. Apple offers an eSIM Quick Transfer feature in iOS that’s supported by all the major U.S. carriers as long as your older iPhone is running iOS 16 or later.
Does your carrier support eSIM? Joe Maring / Digital Trends By now, you’re probably wondering whether your carrier supports eSIM and what’s involved in setting it up. If you purchased an iPhone 14 in the U.S. last year, you’re probably already familiar with the process , but the good news is that more carriers have gotten on board this time around with some of the more advanced eSIM features that Apple offers.
Apple provides a helpful list of carriers that offer eSIM service and which features they support. These fall into three broad categories: eSIM Quick Transfer Joe Maring / Digital Trends If you’re upgrading from an older iPhone, eSIM Quick Transfer is the easiest method to transfer your phone line over. This allows Apple to seamlessly move your line over to your new iPhone 15 as part of the normal process of setting up the new iPhone and transferring your data over from the old one.
There’s a good chance you’ll be able to go this route since the big three U.S. carriers — AT&T, T-Mobile, and Verizon — all support eSIM Quick Transfer, as do Cricket, C Spire, and UScellular. The only catch is that your old iPhone has to be running at least iOS 16, but that shouldn’t be a problem unless you’re making a giant leap from an iPhone 7 or older model.
eSIM Carrier Activation Joe Maring / Digital Trends If your carrier doesn’t support eSIM Quick Transfer, or you’re upgrading from another smartphone or setting up a new line, you’ll still likely be able to take advantage of eSIM Carrier Activation, which allows mobile providers to automatically provision your iPhone over the air. They’ll generally do this automatically if you buy the iPhone from them, but it can also be set up with a quick phone call.
Naturally, the big three can also do this for you, as can the others listed above that support eSIM Quick Transfer — Cricket, C Spire, and USCellular. However, the list goes well beyond that to include many regional carriers, including Boost Mobile, Boost Infinite, Carolina West Wireless, Cellcom, Credo Mobile, FirstNet, GCI Alaska, H2O Wireless, Nex-Tech Wireless, PureTalk, Red Pocket, Spectrum Mobile, Straight Talk, Strata Networks, Tracfone, and Xfinity Mobile.
Other eSIM activation methods Jesse Hollington / Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends While the list of carriers that can activate an eSIM for you online has been growing steadily, there are still a few that require you to use their iPhone apps, scan a QR code, or follow some other method. These tend to be either very small regional providers or prepaid carriers and include Appalachian Wireless, Chat Mobility, Consumer Cellular, Copper Valley Telecom, Metro by T-Mobile, Mint Mobile, Nemont, NorthwestCell, Optimum Mobile, Pioneer Wireless, PTCI, Republic, Thumb Cellular, Truphone, Ubigi, Union Wireless, United Wireless, Viaero, Visible, and West Central Wireless.
Nevertheless, just because these carriers don’t support Apple’s fancier quick activation methods doesn’t mean they aren’t every bit as capable of supporting an eSIM in the iPhone 15. They use a more generic process to get the eSIM set up on your iPhone, but once it’s there, it’s just as compatible with your iPhone 15 as an eSIM from AT&T, T-Mobile, or Verizon.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade iPhone update fixes troublesome bug that broke NFC features for some users The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones Apple did something surprising with the iPhone last night The best health and fitness apps for iPhone in 2023: 18 best ones Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Mobile Apple released the iPhone 15 last month, with the new device offering two screen sizes of 6.1 inches and 6.7 inches.
The arrival of the latest iteration of the tech giant's popular handset saw the company banish from its online store the iPhone 13 Mini, which, as its name suggests, offers a smaller 5.4-inch display.
Mobile Waiting on an iPhone upgrade? Now is the time to pounce, as the newest additions to Apple's legendary roster were confirmed at its September 2023 event. The belles of the ball this year have to be the upgraded iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus models, which have finally received the design update the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max received last year. Now equipped with the Dynamic Island across the hole-punch selfie camera, the gulf between the iPhone and iPhone Pro has lessened again.
If you're eagerly awaiting your upgrade, or if this is your first iPhone, you'll be wanting to keep it safe. Smartphones tend to be with us throughout our day, and that means they can fall prey to any one of a number of hazards. Bumps, drops, even scratches from sharing your pocket with keys or coins; the list is near endless. The last thing you want is for your new phone to end up scratched, chipped, or even completely broken. Thankfully, a good protective case can stop that from happening. Here are some of the best Apple iPhone 15 cases you can buy right now.
Mobile When you have the best iPhone, you pretty much have infinite possibilities for keepingbusy and entertained, no matter where you are. Sure, the iPhone may not be marketed as a gaming phone specifically, but it's pretty powerful — especially with the A17 Pro in the latest iPhone 15 Pro. That new processor means the Apple mobile gaming experience is only getting better and better, with Apple's new chip being able to play console-level games like Assassin's Creed Mirage and the Resident Evil 4 remake.
While those games aren't available yet, there's no shortage of great games to play. But when the App Store has over a million apps, how are you supposed to find the best games to play? Don't worry -- we're here to help! Since there are a ton of games out there — and not every game is a winner — it's definitely hard to find games that are worth your time and energy. Whether you're looking for a simple match 3, an MMORPG, a dungeon crawler, or even something to just relax with, here are the best iPhone games you can play right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
