Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Guides How to download iOS 17 on your iPhone right now By Jesse Hollington Close Apple has officially released iOS 17 , the latest major release of its mobile operating system for the iPhone. After three months of beta testing, iOS 17 is finally ready for public consumption, and it brings with it fun new features like interactive widgets , Contact Posters , a new StandBy smart display mode , multiple timers and improved notifiations , and much more.
Back up your iPhone How to install iOS 17 on your iPhone Problems installing the iOS 17 update? Difficulty Duration What You Need A compatible iPhone A Wi-Fi or cellular data connection Sadly, not every iPhone is compatible with iOS 17.
 Most significantly, this is the end of the road for the 2017 iPhone X , the model that ushered in Face ID and the modern edge-to-edge iPhone design, along with the iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus that came out that same year.
Those models will all be left behind on iOS 16, but the good news is that as long as you have any other iPhone released in the past five years — that's an iPhone XS , XS Max, XR, or newer — you'll be able to update to iOS 17 , although those older models may not be able to take advantage of all the newest features that iOS 17 has to offer. For example, you'll need at least an iPhone 11 to use back-to-back Siri requests, while more advanced videoconferencing features like studio lighting, reactions, and gestures require an iPhone 12 or newer.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Back up your iPhone Although it's very rare to run into problems with an iOS update, it's still a very good idea to have a backup of your iPhone to fall back on just in case, especially with a major iOS update like this one.
You can find the instructions on how to do this in our article on how to back up your iPhone.
Also, keep in mind that you can't restore a backup made from a newer version of iOS onto an iPhone running an older version, so you may want to keep an extra backup on your Mac or PC just in case you later need to go back to iOS 16 for some reason. Your iPhone backs up to iCloud automatically every 24 hours, and only the three most recent iCloud Backups are retained, so it won't take long for your iOS 16 backup to be pushed out of the rotation.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends How to install iOS 17 on your iPhone Now that iOS 17 has been released to the public, your iPhone will eventually fetch the update and install it automatically. However, that can take anywhere from a few days to even a few weeks, as Apple prefers to avoid forcing updates on hundreds of millions of iPhones at a time.
Fortunately, you don't have to wait for this automatic update; you can have your iPhone go out and fetch iOS 17 right away. Here's how.
Step 1: Open the Settings app on your iPhone.
Step 2: Select General.
Step 3: Select Software Update.
Step 4: If you haven't already updated to the latest release of iOS 16 (iOS 16.6.1 as of this writing), you will see an option here to install that update. Skip this and look for "Also Available" at the bottom of the screen and select Upgrade to iOS 17.
In most cases, you can go directly to iOS 17. however, if the "Upgrade to iOS 17 " option doesn't appear, then you may be too far behind and will need to update your iPhone to the latest iOS 16 release.
Step 5: When the update appears, select Download and Install and agree to the terms and conditions when prompted to begin installing iOS 17.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 6: If you're downloading over a cellular data connection instead of Wi-Fi, you'll see an additional prompt to confirm you want to use cellular data to download the update. Select Continue to confirm, or Cancel if you'd rather wait until you have a Wi-Fi connection available.
Step 7: It may take up to an hour or more to download the iOS 17, prepare it, and then install it on your iPhone. Once that process completes, your iPhone will restart and take you through the usual series of welcome and setup screens.
Szabo Viktor / Unsplash Problems installing the iOS 17 update? In most cases, updating to iOS 17 should be a smooth process. However, there are a few common problems you may encounter.
Step 1: If you're not seeing the iOS 17 update appear in General > Software Update , here are some things to try: Make sure your iPhone is compatible with iOS 17.
Check your internet connection. In some cases, you may need to use a Wi-Fi or 5G connection for it to show up, which is probably a good idea anyway, as it's a pretty big download.
If you've been participating in the public beta or developer beta program, you may have already installed the final iOS 17 release, which was sent out to beta testers on September 12 after Apple's iPhone 15 event , six days ahead of the public release on September 18.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 2: If you see "Update Requested" after selecting Update Now , you'll simply need to be patient. This means that there are a lot folks downloading iOS 17 at the same time, and you're simply waiting your turn in the queue.
Step 3: Make sure you have enough free space on your iPhone before you start. The bare minimum is 2GB, but more is better. Generally, your iPhone will tell you if there's not enough space when you try to install the update, but it can sometimes fail to do so if you're really close to the line, in which case the update may just fail to fully download or install.
You can see what's taking up space on your iPhone by going to Settings > General > iPhone Storage.
 Your iPhone may provide some recommendations on how to clear up space, or you can select individual apps to delete or offload data to free up some more space.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 4: Sometimes, an iOS 17 update may fail due to a corrupted download. In this case, you can delete the downloaded update in Settings > General > iPhone Storage , and try downloading it again from Settings > General > Software Update.
Editors' Recommendations iOS 17: How to delete a wallpaper on your iPhone It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 How to unblock a number on your iPhone iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app Apple Apple iPhone How-To Guides Mobile Every year, we get a new iPhone; that’s just the way it goes. And one of the biggest upgrades each year is with the camera system.
Though the spotlight is typically on the Pro models of the iPhone, Apple gave us a pretty significant upgrade this year with the standard iPhone 15. Of course, it’s not as feature-packed as the iPhone 15 Pro, but Apple brought the Dynamic Island and USB-C to the regular iPhone 15, and even bumped up the camera to a whopping 48MP.
Mobile The iPhone has so many clever and fun little features that it's easy to miss some of them. One of the most whimsical features to come along in recent years is the ability to lift the subject of a photo away from the background so you can use it elsewhere — whether that's sharing it in an email, pasting it into a photo editing app, or even turning it into an iMessage sticker in iOS 17.
What's especially fascinating about this is that it seems like such a simple thing to do — and Apple does make it really easy — but there's a ton of number crunching going on under the hood to make it happen. This means you'll need an iPhone with a reasonably modern processor, but the good news is that it doesn't have to be the latest and greatest iPhone 15 Pro. While the insanely powerful A17 Pro chip in Apple's flagship smartphone surely helps things along, this feature can be used on any iPhone with an A12 Bionic chip or later, which goes back to the 2018 iPhone XS and iPhone XR.
Mobile Duolingo is a top-rated language-learning app known for its unique approach to learning. Unlike similar solutions, Duolingo makes learning fun and engaging by turning each step into a game. Whether using the app on your iPhone or Android, you can choose from over 30 languages to learn. Adding another language to your account is easy once you are ready to move on to the next one.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
