Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides How to download iPadOS 17 on your iPad By Jesse Hollington Close While we have yet to see any new iPads this year, Apple has just unleashed iPadOS 17 , a major update for its tablet operating system that promises to breathe new life into any recent iPad model you already own.
Back up your iPad How to install iPadOS 17 on your iPad Problems installing the iPadOS 17 update? Once you install iPadOS 17, you'll be able to enjoy the iPhone's lock screen features on the larger screen, plus the interactive widgets that also came to the iPhone in this year's iOS 17 update.
 In addition, iPadOS 17 boasts some nice improvements to Stage Manager , a new tablet-sized Health app, significantly improved PDF support in Notes, and even a throwback wallpaper from the original iPad era.
Difficulty Duration What You Need A compatible iPad Sadly, like its iPhone counterpart, iPadOS 17 is leaving a few of Apple's older iPads behind , but that's to be expected. If you're still rocking the very first iPad Pro from 2015 or its 9.7-inch early 2016 follow-up, then iPadOS 16 is the end of the road for you. The same also applies to the fifth-generation iPad released in early 2017.
However, the good news is that those are the only outliers, and iPadOS 17 supports every iPad released after June 2017, starting with the 10.5-inch and second-generation 12.9-inch iPad Pro and the early 2018 sixth-generation iPad. Of course, not all of the new features in iPadOS 17 will be available on these older models. Some features, like reactions and gestures in video calls and screen distance, require an iPad with a TrueDepth camera. Others, like keyboard autocorrect improvements, require the more powerful silicon found in the newer models.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Back up your iPad It's always a really good idea to make sure you have a backup before installing any major iPadOS release. While problems with updating are rare these days, they're not entirely unheard of, and if you're impacted, you'll be glad you took the extra precaution.
You can find the instructions on how to do this in our article on how to back up an iPad.
Also, it's worth mentioning that you can't restore a backup made from a newer version of iPadOS onto an iPad running an older version. If you're using iCloud to back up your iPad, then you may also want to keep an extra backup from iPadOS 16 on your Mac or PC just in case you need to go back later for some reason. Only your three most recent iPad backups are stored in iCloud, and since your iPad backs up automatically every 24 hours, it won't take long before your iPadOS 16 backup disappears from iCloud.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends How to install iPadOS 17 on your iPad Since most folks have automatic updates enabled by default, iPadOS 17 will likely find its way to your iPad on its own — eventually. However, this can take a while to show up, so if you'd like to get it sooner, it's best to jump into your Settings app and download it manually. Here's how.
Step 1: Open the Settings app on your iPad.
Step 2: Select General.
Step 3: Select Software Update.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 4: By default, your iPad will offer you the latest update for whichever major iPadOS release you're on. While you don't necessarily need to update to that first, we'd recommend doing so as an intermediate step if you're coming from a significantly older version, such as iPadOS 15 or even an early point release of iPadOS 16. However, as long as you're running iPadOS 16.4 or later, you're safe to jump right into iPadOS 17, in which case you can move on to the next step.
Step 5: Under "Also Available" select iPadOS 17.0.
Step 6: When the iPadOS 17 update appears on the next screen, select Download and Install and agree to the terms and conditions screens that come up to begin installing it.
Step 7: It may take up to an hour or more to download and prepare the iPadOS 17 beta and then install it on your iPad. Once that process completes, your device will restart and take you through the usual series of welcome and setup screens.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Problems installing the iPadOS 17 update? For the most part, installing iPadOS 17 should go smoothly, and your iPad should reboot with a shiny new "Hello" screen. However, there are a few common problems some folks occasionally encounter.
Step 1: If you're not seeing the option to update to iPadOS 17 appear in General > Software Update , check the following: Make sure your iPad is compatible with iPadOS 17.
Check your internet connection. While it may be possible to download the iPadOS 17 update over a 4G/LTE or 5G connection, that doesn't always work, so try moving to a Wi-Fi network. It's best to download iPadOS updates over Wi-Fi anyway since they can be quite large If you're enrolled in Apple's public beta or developer beta programs, there's a good chance you're already running the final iPadOS 17 release. Apple sent a "Release Candidate" of iPadOS 17 out to beta testers on September 12 after the iPhone 15 event, which is effectively a prerelease of the same build that the public received on September 18. In that case, there's nothing to update — you're already running the latest version available.
Step 2: Don't worry if you see "Update Requested," even if it lingers for a longer period of time. That just means there are a lot of folks downloading iPadOS 17, and you're in the queue. You can leave your iPad and continue what you're doing, and the update will begin downloading as soon as it's your turn.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 3: Ensure that you have ample free space on your iPad before you start. With some supported iPad models having as little as 64GB of storage, it's easy for space to get a bit tight. The absolute minimum that you'll need is 3GB, but more is better.
If there's not enough space, your iPad should tell you this as soon as you try to install the update, but it can sometimes give you a more inscrutable "Update Failed" error message, especially if you're close to the line.
You can see what's taking up space on your iPad and clear some things out by going to Settings > General > iPad Storage.
 This will show you a list of the apps that are taking up the most space, from largest to smallest, and you can select individual ones to see where you might be able to free up space by offloading the app or deleting its data. You may also see some recommendations here on other ways to free up space, such as enabling automatic offloading of apps you rarely use or removing Apple TV videos you've already watched.
Step 4: In some cases, an iPadOS 17 update may simply fail to download properly, resulting in an incomplete or corrupted installer package. If you're seeing generic "Update Failed" errors, check in Settings > General > iPad Storage to see if there's an iPadOS 17 update package there. If there is, delete it and then try downloading it again through the standard software update process in Settings > General > Software Update.
Editors' Recommendations iOS 17: How to delete a wallpaper on your iPhone Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen iOS 17: How to use photo cutout to cut and paste images Apple Apple iPad How-To Guides Mobile iOS 17 is the latest version of Apple's mobile operating software, and as usual, it's brought with it plenty of new features and changes to get excited about. While not the biggest update around (it's telling when one of the major changes mentioned is the ability to send your contact information by AirDrop), iOS 17 is still worth paying attention to and getting if you have a compatible iPhone.
Mobile One of the most exciting features to arrive in last year's iOS 16 release was a whole new level of customization for your lock screen. Rather than just letting you set a static image, Apple opened the floodgates to allow you to create screens that cycled through collections of your photos of friends, pets, and landscapes, see live weather updates and astronomical conditions, and much more.
The feature remains mostly the same in iOS 17, although Apple made a nice tweak in iOS 17.1 so you can now select any of your albums to show on the Photo Shuffle lock screen rather than being limited to the fixed smart collections of people, pets, nature, and cities. You can also still set up multiple lock screens to cycle through, and that also now means multiple Photo Shuffle screens to choose pictures from different albums. Since these can be set to automatically come up in different Focus modes, you can have your iPhone automatically switch between an album of professional pictures at work and family pics at home.
Mobile While there were rumors that Apple would reveal a new iPad mini during the “Scary Fast” M3 Mac event on October 30, that never came to fruition. In fact, we have yet to see any new iPad models come out this year, which is rather peculiar.
While we’re having a break between iPad releases, I think it’s time to reflect on how much of a mess the lineup is and how Apple should reconsider simplifying the portfolio. While iPads are still among the best tablets you can buy, there's also a lot that should change in 2024.
The problem with iPads today Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
