Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile Guides How to download watchOS 10 on your Apple Watch By Jesse Hollington Close It's that time of year again when Apple releases its major mobile operating system updates, and alongside iOS 17 for the iPhone, we're also getting a big new release for Apple's wearables in watchOS 10 — possibly the most significant software update we've ever seen for the Apple Watch.
Back up your Apple Watch How to install watchOS 10 on your Apple Watch Problems installing the watchOS 10 update? For one, watchOS 10 brings with it a fresh new design to the user interface that's almost like owning an entirely new Apple Watch. However, there's a lot more here than just a fresh coat of paint, including new Smart Stack widgets , more powerful workout tracking for cyclists and hikers, new mental and vision health features, and more.
Difficulty Duration What You Need An iPhone running iOS 17 A compatible Apple Watch The good news is that Apple isn't leaving any more Apple Watch models behind this year; if your Apple Watch is running watchOS 9, then you can update it to watchOS 10. This includes the 2018 Apple Watch Series 4 and every model released since.
There is one important catch: As with every watchOS release, your iPhone has to be running the contemporary version of iOS. This means that you will need an iPhone capable of running iOS 17.
 Apple is drawing the same 2018 line for that, which means that if you're toting an iPhone X or older model, you won't be able to install watchOS 10 even if you have a supported Apple Watch.
Note that you'll need to update your iPhone to iOS 17 before you can install watchOS 10 on your Apple Watch.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Back up your Apple Watch Before installing any new OS release, it's always a good idea to have a current backup of your device. You can find the instructions on how to do this in our article on how to back up your Apple Watch.
Although you shouldn't count on being able to restore an Apple Watch to an older version of watchOS, a backup will still come in handy if something goes wrong in watchOS 10; you'll at least be able to restore things back to the way they were at the point where you installed the update, and if your wearable fails entirely, restore that backup onto a new Apple Watch.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends How to install watchOS 10 on your Apple Watch Once you've updated your iPhone to iOS 17 , you can install watchOS 10 from your iPhone's Watch app or even directly through the Apple Watch Settings app.
Note that although you can start downloading and preparing the update right away, your Apple Watch will need to be on its charger and charged to at least 50% before the update will actually install.
Step 1: Open the Watch app on your iPhone or the Settings app on your Apple Watch.
Step 2: Select General.
Step 3: Select Software Update.
Step 4: Select Download and Install to begin installing watchOS 10.
It may take up to an hour or more to download the update, prepare it, and then install it on your Apple Watch. Once the update is downloaded, your Apple Watch has to be charged to at least 50% and remain on its charger before the install process will start.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Problems installing the watchOS 10 update? Updating to watchOS 10 is typically problem-free. However, there are a few issues you may sometimes encounter.
Step 1: If the watchOS 10 update doesn't appear in Genera l > Software Update : Make sure your Apple Watch is compatible with watchOS 10.
Check your internet connection. Sometimes you'll need to be on a Wi-Fi or 5G connection before it appears.
If you're enrolled in Apple's public beta or developer beta program, there's a good chance you've already installed the final watchOS 10 release, as it was sent out to beta testers on September 12 after Apple's iPhone 15 event. In that case, there's nothing new to install — you already have the latest public release of watchOS 10.
Step 2: If you see "Update Requested," it just means you need to patiently wait your turn as there are a lot folks downloading watchOS 10.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 3: Sometimes watchOS updates can fail due to a problem downloading the software. When this happens, you may have a partial or corrupted copy of the watchOS 10 update on your watch that you'll need to remove before you can try again. You can find this by opening the Watch app on your iPhone and selecting General > Storage.
 Delete the package and then try downloading it again.
Editors' Recommendations iOS 17: How to delete a wallpaper on your iPhone Black Friday Apple Watch deals: Save on Series 9, Ultra, and more Apple Watch Ultra 2 just got its first serious discount Apple Watch is bringing back a popular feature soon How to unblock a number on your iPhone Apple Apple Watch Apple WWDC How-To Guides Wearables Mobile Updated from an older iPhone to the new iPhone 15? You may have noticed that your notifications have changed. Where once they sat nestled at the top, now, they appear at the bottom, stacked atop one another. It's a relatively small change, but an important one, as it dramatically changes how and where you find your notifications.
Mobile The iPhone has so many clever and fun little features that it's easy to miss some of them. One of the most whimsical features to come along in recent years is the ability to lift the subject of a photo away from the background so you can use it elsewhere — whether that's sharing it in an email, pasting it into a photo editing app, or even turning it into an iMessage sticker in iOS 17.
What's especially fascinating about this is that it seems like such a simple thing to do — and Apple does make it really easy — but there's a ton of number crunching going on under the hood to make it happen. This means you'll need an iPhone with a reasonably modern processor, but the good news is that it doesn't have to be the latest and greatest iPhone 15 Pro. While the insanely powerful A17 Pro chip in Apple's flagship smartphone surely helps things along, this feature can be used on any iPhone with an A12 Bionic chip or later, which goes back to the 2018 iPhone XS and iPhone XR.
Mobile iOS 17 is the latest version of Apple's mobile operating software, and as usual, it's brought with it plenty of new features and changes to get excited about. While not the biggest update around (it's telling when one of the major changes mentioned is the ability to send your contact information by AirDrop), iOS 17 is still worth paying attention to and getting if you have a compatible iPhone.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
