Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides How to hide photos on your Android phone or tablet By Jesse Hollington Close While modern smartphones are quite secure as long as they remain locked with a passcode or biometrics like a fingerprint, by default those features only protect the front door. If someone picks up your phone while it's unlocked, there aren't typically any barriers that will keep them out of exploring everything from your contacts and emails to your photos.
How to hide photos on your Android phone How to hide photos on a Samsung phone This can be particularly challenging when it comes to photos, since those are the things we like to show off the most from our phones. We've likely all had those moments when we want to show a friend or co-worker a funny cat meme, so we hand over our phone and trust that they won't swipe right and see the photo of the hairy mole that we sent to our doctor that morning.
Difficulty Duration What You Need A smartphone running Android 6.0 or later Google Photos app While avoiding letting other people touch your phone is one solution, the good news is there's an even better way to ensure that your really personal photos stay private. Thankfully, Google and Samsung both know this, so they've provided a way to bury pictures even deeper in their respective photos apps to make sure that you're the only one who gets to see them.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends How to hide photos on your Android phone Most modern Android phones now come with Google Photos preinstalled, and for those that don't, it's a quick and easy download from the Play Store. It's one of the best photo apps for your Android phone, particularly since you can take advantage of the Google cloud storage you're likely already paying for to handle your Gmail messages and Google Drive files.
Two years ago, Google added a Locked Folder feature to Google Photos to keep your most personal photos stashed away and out of view, stored only on your local device. More recently it's expanded that to sync this locked folder securely to Google Photos on the web , and even over to Google Photos on Apple devices. This is still rolling out as of this writing, so it may not be available on your account just yet. If that's the case, just be aware that until it does show up, photos in your Locked Folder will be moved out of Google Photos in the cloud and stored only on your device; they'll be deleted if you uninstall Google Photos, and won't be moved automatically if you switch to a new device.
Before we continue, it's worth noting that your Locked Folder shares the same authentication method as your main device lock screen, so it won't help you hide photos from anybody who can unlock your device — the same passcode or fingerprints can unlocked the Locked Folder just as easily as they can unlock your phone.
Step 1: Install the Google Photos app from the Play Store if it's not already on your device.
Step 2: Open the Google Photos app.
Don’t update your Pixel phone — a new Android update might break it The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy Step 3: Select Library from the bottom right corner.
Step 4: Select Utilities from the options at the top.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 5: Choose Get started under "Set up Locked Folder" if the banner appears. Otherwise, scroll down and select Locked Folder.
Step 6: Select the Set up button.
Step 7: Follow the instructions to authenticate with your fingerprint or passcode.
Step 8: If your Locked Folder is empty, you'll be shown a screen that says there's "Nothing here yet." Choose the Move items button to select items from your main photo library and move them to your locked folder.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 9: If you already have photos in your Locked Folder, you'll see them displayed here. You can select the add photos button near the top-right corner of the screen to add additional photos to your Locked Folder. Alternatively, you can also move photos to the Locked Folder by selecting them from the main gallery and choosing Move to Locked Folder from the options menu that comes up.
Step 10: If you want to securely back up the photos in your Locked Folder, you can turn this on by selecting your profile pictures in the top-right corner of the Google Photos app and choosing Photos settings > Backup > Back up Locked Folder.
 Note that Google only began rolling out this feature on August 29, 2023 , so it may not be available for everyone just yet.
Step 11: To access the photos in your Locked Folder in the future, just open the Google Photos app, select Library > Utilities > Locked Folder and authenticate using your fingerprint or passcode.
Note that to protect your privacy and security, Android will not allow you to capture screenshots within the Locked Folder.
Any screenshots you attempt to take with the Locked Folder open will product a blank black image. This is expected behavior.
Galaxy S23 Ultra (right) and Galaxy A54 (left) Andy Boxall / Digital Trends How to hide photos on a Samsung phone While you can install Google Photos on a Samsung smartphone just as easily as you can on any other Android device, many Samsung folks prefer to use Samsung's Gallery app, which is understandable as it's a great choice for those toting a Galaxy S23 Ultra , or Galaxy Z Flip 5 with their unique camera features.
Thankfully, Samsung fans also have a way to hide their personal photos in the Samsung Gallery app, using Samsung's Secure Folder feature.
Step 1: First, you'll need to enable Secure Folder if you haven't already done so. This can be found under Settings > Biometrics and security > Secure folder.
 You'll need to sign in with your Samsung account and choose a preferred lock method to protect your secure folder.
Step 2: Next, launch the Samsung Gallery app on your phone.
Step 3: Select Pictures from the menu bar at the bottom to show all of your photos or Albums if you would like to select photos from a specific album. You can also choose to move an entire album to your Secure Folder.
Step 4: Once you're looking at the photo(s) you want to hide, select the three-dot button in the top-right corner and select Edit from the pop-up menu that appears. Alternatively, you can also enter edit mode by pressing and holding on the first photo, video, or album that you would like to hide.
Step 5: Select the photos or videos that you would like to move to your Secure Folder. You can also select an entire album from the Albums view.
Step 6: Select the More button at the bottom.
Step 7: Choose Move to Secure Folder and enter your PIN or authenticate with your fingerprint when prompted.
Note that since the Secure Folder is a separate, encrypted storage area, it may take some time to move your items to the Secure Folder. You can check on the progress of this by swiping down from the top of the screen to check your notifications.
Step 8: Once the move is complete, the selected items should vanish from your main Samsung Gallery app. To view them, you'll need to open the Secure Folder app on your phone and open the Samsung Gallery from there.
Be aware that items in your Secure Folder are not backed up or synchronized to any cloud services. Although Samsung previously allowed users to back up Secure Folder contents to Samsung Cloud, that was discontinued in early 2021. Secure Folder can be transferred to a new Samsung phone using Smart Switch if you're running One UI 5 or later, but we'd strongly recommend making a separate backup of your photos in some other private location before moving them into your Secure Folder, since data stored in this area may not be recoverable if something happens to your phone.
Editors' Recommendations How to change your language on Duolingo The best health and fitness apps for iPhone in 2023: 18 best ones The best prepaid cell phone plans in 2023: the 7 best ones How to send a text message from a computer How to download YouTube videos on PC, iOS, Android, and Mac Android How-To Photography Android Apps Google How-To Guides Mobile After lots of anticipation, Android 14 has landed. For the past few months, we've experimented with Android 14 on a Google Pixel 7a. Surprisingly, the latest major iteration of Google’s mobile operating system is light on aesthetics and dramatic feature additions. Instead, it focuses more on refinements, especially for large-screen devices.
Mobile Losing your smartphone can be an absolute nightmare. Not only does your smartphone have all of your most precious photos, videos, and chats saved on it, but it may have information of a more sensitive nature too (like banking apps). That's a big part of the reason why we all experience that familiar skipped heartbeat when we realize our phone isn't where we expect it to be. Thankfully, there are a number of ways you can keep track of all of your smart devices, whether phones or tablets, and even smartwatches.
Mobile If you’re planning on upgrading to the latest iPhone, such as the iPhone 15 or iPhone 15 Pro, you may need to reset your old phone before getting rid of it or giving it away. As iPhone users, we’ve learned various tips and tricks over the years, but it’s always helpful to review the basics. One crucial aspect every iPhone user should know is how to reset their device. The process used to be the same for all models, but since the introduction of the iPhone X, which features Face ID and no Home button, there have been some changes.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
