Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides How to send a text message to an email address By Jesse Hollington Close Even though all modern smartphones offer built-in email capabilities and a wide selection of email apps to choose from, there are still times you may find it preferable to send a short text message to someone's email address instead of a normal email message. For example, maybe you don't have email set up on your phone or you'd rather not disclose your personal email address to the recipient. Or you may be out data coverage or not have a internet data plan on your device.
How to send a text to someone's email (Android) How to send a text to someone's email (iPhone) How to forward texts to someone's email (Android) How to forward texts to someone's email (iPhone) The good news is that nearly all carriers still let you send a text message directly to an email address even when you have no cellular data or Wi-Fi connections available. This is because SMS and MMS text messages travel over a direct cellular connection that doesn't require internet access, so they're a great way to reach out to someone when the only other option you have available is to make a phone call.
Difficulty Duration What You Need An iPhone or Android smartphone A cellular plan that includes MMS messaging While text messages sent to other phone numbers use the text-only SMS (Short Message Service), messages to email addresses use MMS (Multimedia Messaging Service). MMS is the same service used to send text messages that include photos and videos; most cellular plans include this by default, but some may still charge a per-message fee for sending MMS instead of SMS messages. We recommend checking with your carrier if you're unsure how MMS messaging is handled on your plan.
Text messages sent to email addresses still travel through your carrier's MMS network, where they're converted to emails and delivered to the recipient's inbox from the carrier's mail servers. How the message will appear to the recipient differs depending on your carrier, but in most cases it should come from an address that includes your phone number, such as 4165551212@tmomail.net, so the recipient can also reply to the message using the carrier's email to text service , allowing you to carry on a full conversation.
Let's take a closer look at how this works on an iPhone or Android smartphone.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends How to send a text to someone's email (Android) Sending a text to an email address is as simple as entering an email address instead of a phone number in the "To" line of your messaging app. In the case of Android, that's likely going to be Google Messages, but it should work equally well in Samsung Messages or other SMS/MMS apps — as long as they support MMS.
Step 1: Open the Messages app on your Android phone.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 2: Select Start Chat to begin a new conversation.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends How to unblock a number on your iPhone iOS 17: How to use photo cutout to cut and paste images iOS 17: How to change the clock font on your iPhone Step 3: In the To line, type the email address you would like to send a message to.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 4: Once you've typed the full address, select the Send to prompt that appears below the address.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 5: Compose your text message as you normally would. When finished, choose the Send button to send it on its way. On newer versions of Android, you can also hold the Send button to schedule the message to go out later.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends How to send a text to someone's email (iPhone) In theory, sending a text message to an email from an iPhone should be as easy as it is on Android — just enter the email address in the "To" line. However, there's another wrinkle that can complicate things thanks to Apple's iMessage service.
Most iPhone users will automatically have their primary email address registered for iMessage. This means that when you attempt to send a text to an email address from the iPhone Messages app, it may travel over Apple's iMessage network instead of going to the recipient's email box. Fortunately, it's easy to tell when this is happening, thanks to the green-blue bubble thing.
 There are also ways to get around this if you really want to send a text message to the email inbox of a person who's registered for iMessage.
Step 1: Ensure MMS is turned on by going to Settings > Messages and looking for the MMS Messaging toggle. This is usually enabled by default, but if it's been switched off for some reason you'll need to switch it back on before you can send text messages to an email address.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 2: Open the Messages app on your iPhone.
Step 3: Select the compose message button in the top-right corner.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 4: In the To line, type the email address you would like to send a message to, and select the Return button on the keyboard.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 5: If the email address turns green, that means your message will be sent out via MMS and you're good to go. You should also see the words "New MMS" at the top of the screen and "Text Message" in the compose box.
Select that compose box, type your message, and choose the green arrow to send it on its way. That green send button is yet another cue that you're using SMS/MMS rather than iMessage.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 6: If the email address turns blue, that means it's been registered to receive iMessages. You can still proceed to send a message, but it won't go to the recipient's email box; instead, it will be sent to their iPhone, iPad, or Mac. Further, if you don't have data available, the message won't go out until you're back in coverage, since iMessage requires a data connection to reach Apple's servers.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 7: If you want the message to be sent over MMS instead to ensure it goes to the recipient's email inbox, the simplest solution is to open Settings > Messages and toggle the iMessage switch off. This disables iMessage entirely on your iPhone, so that everything from the Messages app will be sent via SMS and MMS. You can follow the same steps to toggle iMessage back on once you've sent the message out.
Also check to make sure the Send as SMS option is enabled under Settings > Messages.
 This will allow your iPhone to fall back to sending iMessages as SMS/MMS messages when you're out of data coverage or you've turned off cellular data and Wi-Fi.
How to forward texts to someone's email (Android) Sometimes you'll want to forward a text message you've received to someone's email address. For example, if you've received an order confirmation or party invite via text and want to pass it on. While you can typically just copy-and-paste a text into an email, you can also just use your messaging app's built-in forwarding capabilities to send it on to an email address as easily as a phone number.
Step 1: Open the Messages app on your Android phone and select a conversation with a message you'd like to forward to an email address.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 2: Press and hold on the specific message in the conversation until it changes color. Depending on your phone, you may also feel a haptic feedback to confirm.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 3: Select the three-dot menu in the top-right corner and choose Forward.
 Alternatively, you can also use the Share option here if you'd rather send the text message out using an email app like Gmail, or forward it through another messaging app like WhatsApp.
Step 4: After selecting the Forward option, choose from the list of recently-used addresses or select New Message to type in a new email address, and then proceed to send the message out in the same way as described above for sending a new message.
How to forward texts to someone's email (iPhone) Forwarding a text message to an email from an iPhone is similarly easy, although the same caveats concerning iMessage apply when forwarding a message as when sending a new one, so you may have to bypass that if you find the email address turns blue and you want to force it to go out via email instead. Also be sure that MMS is enabled in Settings > Messages , as described above.
Step 1: Open the Messages app on your iPhone and select a conversation with a message you'd like to forward to an email address.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 2: Press and hold on the message you'd like to forward. A pop-up menu of options will appear.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 3: Select More.
 The current message will appear with a blue checkmark beside it.
Step 4: Select any additional messages you would like to forward.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 5: Choose the Forward arrow in the bottom-right corner. A new message compose box will appear with the text of your selected message(s).
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 6: Enter an email address in the To line, edit or add to the text in the compose box if desired, and select the green arrow to send the message on its way.
Note that if you see a blue arrow here instead, the message will be sent directly to the recipient's iPhone via Apple's iMessage service; it will not arrive in their inbox. See the section above on sending a text to someone's email for how to override this.
Editors' Recommendations It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen How to change your language on Duolingo iOS 17: How to add a different home screen wallpaper on your iPhone How to remove a language on Duolingo How-To Android Apple Google How-To Guides Mobile It’s that time of the year again. On Sunday, November 5, at 2:00 a.m., the majority of people in the U.S. will revert to standard time by setting their clocks behind by an hour. This also means that you get an extra hour of sleep. However, it raises an important question: will your phone automatically change to standard time, or do you need to do it manually? It's a question that applies regardless of which phone you have. Whether you're rocking an iPhone 15 Pro, a Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, or any other smartphone, it's important to know whether or not you need to change it for the new time.
Mobile Choosing the best phone in 2023 can be quite challenging as there are so many excellent options available. Whether you are an iPhone fan, an Android user, or open to any smartphone, finding the perfect one for you may seem like a daunting task. But don't worry, we're here to help! Below, we have compiled a list of our top picks for the best phones you can currently buy. We believe that there's something for everyone on this list, and we're confident that you'll find a phone that suits your preferences perfectly.
Computing If you’re on a computer and you get a text on your phone, wouldn’t it be great if you could reply without picking it up? Yes, it would, and there are great apps and services that enable just that ability.
Whether you use Apple or Android, you can send and receive text messages on a Mac, Windows PC, or Chromebook. Keep reading to determine which option works best for you.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
