Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Guides How to use StandBy in iOS 17 to turn your iPhone into a smart display By Jesse Hollington Close Although this year’s iOS 17 release isn’t chock-full of the type of big “tentpole” features we’ve seen in recent years, like customizable lock screens and home screen widgets , there are some fun and exciting enhancements that will change the way you use your iPhone.
How to turn on StandBy in iOS 17 How to edit StandBy settings How to switch between StandBy screens How to add and remove StandBy widgets How to customize your StandBy photo display How to customize the StandBy clock screens StandBy mode not working on iOS 17 Perhaps the coolest and most significant of these is the new StandBy mode that lets you turn your iPhone into a smart display while it’s sitting on a charging stand. StandBy delivers a new lock screen experience that lets you quickly see information at a glance, even from across the room — showing photos, clocks, weather, and other info from a variety of customizable widgets. Incoming notifications, responses from Siri, and music playback controls also use StandBy to appear in an easily readable full-screen view.
Difficulty Duration What You Need An iPhone running iOS 17 or newer An iPhone charger or charging dock StandBy also takes full advantage of the always-on display on recent iPhone Pro models, including the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro , and it can even dim to a comfortable red tone at night — making it a great bedside table replacement for an alarm clock or standalone smart display like an Echo Show 5.
Like many of the features that Apple adds to the iPhone, StandBy works out of the box on any iPhone running iOS 17 without the need to tweak too many settings. However, there are still a few things you’ll want to know to get the most out of Apple’s new StandBy feature.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends How to turn on StandBy in iOS 17 StandBy is enabled by default as soon as you update to iOS 17, but you can confirm this with a quick trip into the Settings app, where the toggle switch for it can be found under StandBy.
If you find that StandBy is more annoying than helpful, you can also turn it off from here, but Apple has done an excellent job of designing it to stay out of your way.
There are also a few conditions your iPhone will need to meet to activate it. Specifically, your iPhone must be in landscape orientation, locked, charging, and not lying flat on its back.
The StandBy mode will not engage unless your iPhone is on the lock screen, even if it’s sitting at the home screen. Otherwise, StandBy mode could get in the way of whatever you’re doing.
The iPhone also must be connected to charging power in some way. Although a MagSafe charging stand is ideal since it will also hold your iPhone at a proper viewing angle, any power source will work, including standard Qi chargers or even a wired Lightning cable, as long as you have a way of propping the iPhone up.
That last part is the final trick. Since StandBy is designed to work as a smart display, it won’t activate after laying your iPhone down horizontally — even if you’re using a MagSafe charger. Your iPhone needs to be at an angle of at least 30 degrees from horizontal for StandBy mode to engage.
Unfortunately, even though StandBy will work on any iPhone that can be updated to iOS 17 — all the way back to the 2018 iPhone XS/XS Max and iPhone XR — the screen will only remain on if you’re using an iPhone with an always-on display.
 That’s an iPhone 14 Pro , iPhone 14 Pro Max, iPhone 15 Pro, or iPhone 15 Pro Max. With other iPhone models, you’ll only get 30 seconds before it shuts off, likely to reduce the risk of screen burn-in.
Even with an always-on display, the screen will turn off at night or any other time when your iPhone thinks it doesn’t need to be on, such as when it knows from your Apple Watch that you’re at the other end of your house. The StandBy screen will come back on when movement is detected or when you tap your iPhone or call out to it with a hands-free Siri request.
While StandBy will work with any stand as long as your iPhone is charging and propped up in landscape orientation. If you're using MagSafe charging stands, your iPhone will also remember the view you've set on each one and bring it up again when you return it to that stand. This means you can set your iPhone up to automatically display a photo album whenever you dock it in the living room, useful widgets in your kitchen, and a clock on your bedside table.
Apple How to edit StandBy settings While StandBy just works for the most part, there are a few settings you can tweak to adjust it to your liking. This includes how notifications are handled while in StandBy mode, whether to use the always-on display on supported iPhone models, and how StandBy works at night.
Step 1: Open the Settings app on your iPhone.
Step 2: Scroll down and select StandBy.
Step 3: Ensure StandBy is enabled. The other settings won’t appear otherwise.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 4: If you’re using an iPhone 14 Pro, iPhone 14 Pro Max, or newer model with an always-on display, you’ll see an Always On switch you can toggle.
When this is off, the screen will automatically turn off after 30 seconds in StandBy mode. It will come back on if you tap it or if the iPhone’s accelerometer detects vibration, such as a nudge to the table it’s on or even nearby footsteps in some cases.
Step 5: Select Night Mode to adjust how StandBy works in a darker room or at night.
When the Night Mode setting is enabled, the StandBy screen will adopt a dimmed red tint when the ambient lighting around your iPhone is low to keep it from searing your eyeballs. Despite the name, Night Mode will engage at any time of the day in lowlight conditions.
Step 6: You can also toggle off Motion To Wake from the Night Mode settings if you want your screen to remain dark at night, even when motion is detected.
Step 7: Select StandBy in the top-left corner to return to the main StandBy settings screen.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 8: Toggle off Show Notifications if you prefer to silence notifications in StandBy mode.
Even when this is on, notifications in StandBy mode work the same as they do otherwise, meaning you’ll only see them on your iPhone if they’re set to appear on your lock screen, and they won’t be shown if they’re delivered to your Apple Watch instead.
Further, as the text on this screen notes, this won’t block critical notifications, which can burst through all do not disturb modes and always play a sound even when your iPhone is otherwise muted. That’s a good thing since these alerts are reserved for only the most serious situations, such as smoke and security alarms and severe weather emergencies.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 9: If you’ve opted to show notifications, you can toggle on the Show Preview on Tap Only setting for additional privacy.
When this option is enabled, you’ll need to tap your screen to see the details of all incoming notifications in StandBy mode. When this setting is off, StandBy will use your main notification settings to determine when previews should be shown. For example, if you normally only show previews of incoming messages when your iPhone is unlocked, they won’t be displayed in StandBy mode unless you’re looking at your iPhone so it can authenticate you with Face ID.
Apple How to switch between StandBy screens In iOS 17, Apple has provided three StandBy screen categories that you can customize depending on the information you want to view. You can switch between these by swiping to the left or right while StandBy is active.
The first screen provides a two-pane widget view. By default, that’s set up with a clock on one side and a calendar on the other, but you can customize this with a variety of other widgets and swipe up and down to cycle through them.
Swiping right to left will take you to a second StandBy screen that lets you turn your iPhone into a digital picture frame, automatically cycling through a selection of images from your photo library. You can configure multiple photo collections here and swipe up and down to choose between them.
The final StandBy screen provides a selection of predefined clocks, similar in concept to Apple Watch faces.
 However, there aren’t nearly as many to choose from, and there are no widgets or complications here; customization is limited to changing the color palettes.
Apple How to add and remove StandBy widgets While it may not look like much more than a clock at first glance, the left-most StandBy screen is the most versatile of the bunch since you can customize it with a range of widgets, from clocks and weather to home controls, photos, and reminders. Most of Apple’s first-party apps work here, of course, but third-party developers can also create their own StandBy widgets, and we're already seeing a few of the most popular apps on board now that iOS 17 has been released to the public.
StandBy also supports the new interactive widgets in iOS 17.
 You can check off items in the Reminders widget, toggle home devices off from the Home widget, or play your favorite playlists from the Music widget. Much like the iPhone home screen, you can have a stack of multiple widgets and swipe up and down to switch between them manually or use the Smart Rotate feature to let your iPhone pick which ones should be shown based on the time of day and other conditions.
Here’s how to customize your StandBy widgets: Step 1: Ensure your iPhone is in StandBy mode and you’re looking at the widget screen. If you see a full-screen photo view or clock instead, swipe left to right once or twice until the two-pane widget screen appears.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 2: Press and hold on the side of the screen where you want to add a new widget to open the widget editing view.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 3: Swipe up or down to view the widgets already in the stack.
Step 4: To remove a widget from the stack, select the minus button in the top-left corner of the widget and confirm its removal by choosing Remove from the prompt that pops up.
Step 5: To add a widget, select the plus button in the very top-left corner of the screen. From here, you can see a list of suggested widgets on the right of your screen or scroll through a list of apps with supported widgets on the left to find one you’d like to add. You can also select the Search Widgets field at the top to bring up a keyboard to look for a specific app or widget.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 6: Select a suggested widget or app to see a preview. Some widgets like Calendar and Clock offer multiple styles, in which case you can swipe left or right to see other options.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 7: Once you’ve found a widget you like, select the Add Widget button to add it to the stack.
Step 8: You can also select Smart Rotate on the right-hand side to choose whether you want widgets to be selected automatically at different times throughout the day or enable Widget Suggestions to have additional widgets automatically show up based on what your iPhone thinks you might use.
Step 9: When finished customizing your widget stack, select Done in the top-right corner to return to the StandBy screen. Repeat the steps above to customize the other side of the widget screen.
Apple How to customize your StandBy photo display The second, or middle, StandBy screen is designed to show you a selection of pictures from your photo library. By default, you get five views: Featured, Nature, Pets, Cities, and People. You can swipe up and down to switch between these, hide any you don’t want to see, or add custom albums. Here’s how.
Step 1: Ensure your iPhone is in StandBy mode and you’re looking at the photos screen. If you see widgets or a full-screen clock instead, swipe left or right until the photos screen appears.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 2: Press and hold anywhere on the screen to enter editing mode.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 3: Swipe up or down to select a photo collection.
Step 4: To hide one of the preset collections, select the eye button in the top-left corner. Choose it again to unhide the collection.
Step 5: To add a custom album from your photos library, select the plus button in the top-left corner of the screen and choose the album you would like to add.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 6: To remove a custom album you’ve added, select the minus button in the top-left corner of the photo.
Step 7: You can also choose who appears in your People album by selecting the silhouette button in the bottom-right corner while in the editing view. This will bring up a list of all the faces from your photo library. Choose those you’d like to include in the collection; a blue checkmark will appear on the faces you’ve selected for inclusion.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 8: When finished, select Done in the top-right corner to return to the main photo screen.
Apple How to customize the StandBy clock screens The third set of StandBy screens provides a fixed selection of five clock views: Digital, Analog, World, Solar, and Float. Each of these displays the time in a unique way, while some also show the date, temperature, and time of your next alarm.
Sadly, these aren’t very customizable, but you can change the colors for some, or at least the color accents. Here’s how.
Step 1: With your iPhone in StandBy, select the clocks screen by swiping right to left once or twice until it appears.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 2: Press and hold anywhere on the screen to enter editing mode.
Step 3: Swipe up or down to browse through the clock screens to find the one you want to customize.
Step 4: Select the white circular button in the bottom-right corner of the clock for which you want to change the colors.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 5: Choose from the available color options to see a preview of what it looks like.
Step 6: When you find one you like, select the X button to close the color picker, and then choose Done in the top-right corner to return to the clock screen.
Apple StandBy mode not working on iOS 17 Typically, StandBy should engage automatically whenever your iPhone is at the lock screen and you dock it with a charger in landscape orientation, or even if you plug in a Lightning or USB-C charging cable while it's propped up on its side. Here are some things to try if it's not kicking in or otherwise not working the way you expect.
Step 1: Confirm that you've finished updating your iPhone to iOS 17.
Step 2: Check to make sure that StandBy is enabled under Settings > StandBy.
 If it's already toggled on, try switching it off and turning it back on again.
Step 3: Check to make sure your iPhone is charging. Even if you're using a MagSafe stand, StandBy won't engage unless your iPhone is connected to power. To use StandBy with a magnetic stand that doesn't provide power, you'll need to plug it in using a Lightning or USB-C cable.
Step 4: If you have a MagSafe charging stand that tilts, ensure your iPhone is propped up at least 30 degrees from horizontal.
Step 5: Slowly turn your iPhone into portrait orientation, wait a second or two, and then slowly turn it back into landscape orientation. StandBy uses the accelerometer to detect when your iPhone is in landscape, and just like in other apps, sometimes it doesn't pick this movement up and needs a reminder.
Step 6: Try restarting your iPhone.
 It's cliché, but it often works.
Step 7: If your iPhone is going into a dim red mode during the day, either increase the lighting in the room or disable Night Mode under Settings > StandBy.
Step 8: Also remember that your StandBy screen won't stay visible unless you're using an iPhone with an always-on display. On other iPhone models, it will shut off after about 30 seconds. This is expected behavior. You can wake it up again by touching the screen.
Further, even if you have an iPhone 14 Pro or later Pro model with an always-on display, the StandBy screen will still shut off after a few seconds in Night Mode or when you've activated Low Power Mode, Sleep Mode, or any other Focus Mode that you've set to disable the always-on display. It also switches off if you're wearing an Apple Watch and leave the vicinity of your iPhone.
Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 Pro Max screen protectors in 2023 It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes The iPhone is getting out of control iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen Apple Apple iPhone How-To Guides Mobile Every year, we get a new iPhone; that’s just the way it goes. And one of the biggest upgrades each year is with the camera system.
Though the spotlight is typically on the Pro models of the iPhone, Apple gave us a pretty significant upgrade this year with the standard iPhone 15. Of course, it’s not as feature-packed as the iPhone 15 Pro, but Apple brought the Dynamic Island and USB-C to the regular iPhone 15, and even bumped up the camera to a whopping 48MP.
Mobile The iPhone has so many clever and fun little features that it's easy to miss some of them. One of the most whimsical features to come along in recent years is the ability to lift the subject of a photo away from the background so you can use it elsewhere — whether that's sharing it in an email, pasting it into a photo editing app, or even turning it into an iMessage sticker in iOS 17.
What's especially fascinating about this is that it seems like such a simple thing to do — and Apple does make it really easy — but there's a ton of number crunching going on under the hood to make it happen. This means you'll need an iPhone with a reasonably modern processor, but the good news is that it doesn't have to be the latest and greatest iPhone 15 Pro. While the insanely powerful A17 Pro chip in Apple's flagship smartphone surely helps things along, this feature can be used on any iPhone with an A12 Bionic chip or later, which goes back to the 2018 iPhone XS and iPhone XR.
Mobile iOS 17 is the latest version of Apple's mobile operating software, and as usual, it's brought with it plenty of new features and changes to get excited about. While not the biggest update around (it's telling when one of the major changes mentioned is the ability to send your contact information by AirDrop), iOS 17 is still worth paying attention to and getting if you have a compatible iPhone.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
