Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Guides iPhone error 4013: what it is and how to fix it By Jesse Hollington Close While we're long past the days where a wired USB to Lightning connection was necessary to install iPhone software updates, sometimes it's still an easier way to go — for example, if you have a limited data connection and no Wi-Fi available. And if you run into the dreaded "iPhone Unavailable" error , you may not have any other option but to plug your iPhone in and restore it to factory settings the old-fashioned way.
What is iPhone error 4013? Restart your iPhone, iPad, or iPod Touch Install the latest version of iTunes Update your operating system Put your device in recovery mode Other steps you can try to fix error 4013 While this process runs smoothly most of the time, there are scenarios where you may run into a snag. Unfortunately, when this does happen, the error messages can be somewhat inscrutable, offering little help other than to tell you that "An unknown error occurred" and showing a numeric code that gives you little insight into what that "unknown" problem could be. Chief among these is error 4013.
Difficulty Duration What You Need An iPhone, iPad, or iPod A Windows PC or Mac An appropriate Lightning, USB-C, or Dock Connector cable The good news is that the causes of these errors can often be very easy to fix — once you know where to look, that is. Unfortunately, since they cover a broad range of possible problems, Apple can't really point to any one thing in the message, which is why it simply flags it as an "unknown" error. However, there are a few troubleshooting steps that you can try that will more often than not resolve error 4013, and even some of its cousins like 4005 and 4014.
Apple What is iPhone error 4013? Error 4013 indicates a communication problem has occurred between your device and your computer. The message can show up when restoring anything from an iPod classic to the latest iPhone 14 Pro Max , and it basically means that iTunes (or Finder in later versions of macOS) failed to communicate with your device properly.
Of course, there can be a lot of reasons for this. Unplugging your device in the middle of a restore will often result in a 4013 error, as will a bad USB port, a dodgy cable, driver problems, and more. Hence, there's no one place to look, but if you cover a few of the following bases, you can rule out the most common causes for this error.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Restart your iPhone, iPad, or iPod Touch Sometimes the cliche is true: turning things off and back on again really does fix everything. Rebooting your Mac or PC should therefore be a first step, but don't forget to also restart the device that you're trying to update or restore from that computer. How to do this varies depending on which device you're using.
Step 1: Here's how to do it for a 2017 or later iPhone model, which includes the iPhone 8, iPhone 8 Plus, iPhone SE (2020), iPhone SE (2022), and all Face ID-equipped iPhones, as well as all iPad models without a front Home button: Press and quickly release the volume up button.
Press and quickly release the volume down button.
Press and hold the side or top button until the device restarts and you see the Apple logo appear.
Step 2: For the iPhone 7 , iPhone 7 Plus, and iPod Touch (7th generation), press and hold both the side/top button and the volume down button simultaneously until you see the Apple logo appear.
Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes The iPhone is getting out of control Step 3: For the iPhone 6s , iPhone SE (2016), and earlier models, as well as the iPod Touch (6th generation) or earlier and all iPad models that have a home button on the front, press and hold both the side/top button and the home button simultaneously until you see the Apple logo appear.
Step 4: Once your iPhone, iPad, or iPod Touch has finished restarting, unlock it with your passcode, connect it to your computer, and try restoring or updating it again.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Install the latest version of iTunes If you're running Windows or macOS Mojave (10.14) or earlier, you should ensure that you've downloaded and installed the latest version of iTunes on your Mac or Windows PC that's appropriate for your operating system. As of this writing, that's iTunes 12.12.9 for Windows.
Note that this won't apply if you're using macOS Catalina (10.15) or later, as iTunes is no longer used to manage iPhones, iPads, and iPods on these more recent operating systems. Instead, you can restore your device through the macOS Finder app, which is a core part of the OS.
Step 1: If you're using Windows 10 or later: If you downloaded iTunes directly from the Microsoft Store , you can also check for updates from there. To do this, open the Microsoft Store app and choose Get Updates.
If you installed iTunes directly from Apple's website, you can check for updates and download the latest version from inside the iTunes app. To do this, open iTunes and choose Help > Check for Updates from the menu bar at the top.
Note that if you're installing iTunes fresh on Windows 10 or later, it's strongly recommended that you grab it from the Microsoft Store, as that provides the latest available version — 12.12.9 as of this writing. You can only download iTunes 12.10.11 (64-bit) or the 32-bit version directly from Apple. These are also compatible with Windows 7 and Windows 8.
Step 2: If you're using macOS Mojave (10.14) or earlier, you can check for the latest version of iTunes through the built-in Software Update mechanism or download it directly from Apple's iTunes Downloads page.
 The correct version of iTunes depends on which version of macOS or OS X you're using, as follows: If you're using macOS Mojave (10.14), iTunes is bundled with macOS, and iTunes 12.9.5 — the last version of iTunes to be created for the Mac — is included in the final 10.14.6 Mojave release; it's not available as a separate download.
If you're using macOS High Sierra (10.13), download iTunes 12.8.3.
If you're using macOS Sierra (10.12) or OS X El Capitan (10.11), download iTunes 12.8.2.
If you're using OS X Yosemite (10.10.5), download iTunes 12.8.1.
If you're using OS X Mavericks (10.9), download iTunes 12.6.2.
If you're using OS X Mountain Lion (10.8.5), download iTunes 12.4.3.
If you're using OS X Lion (10.7), upgrade your system to OS X Mountain Lion (10.8.5) and Download iTunes 12.4.3.
 iTunes 12.2, which is the latest version supported by OS X Lion, is not officially available as a separate download.
If you're using OS X Snow Leopard (10.6), download iTunes 11.4.
Apple also offers iTunes 10.6.3 and iTunes 9.2.1 for even older versions of OS X, but if you have to go that far back, we'd strongly recommending finding a computer that can handle a newer version of iTunes, as these aren't likely to support any iPhone or iPad that's been released in the past five years anyway.
Clint Patterson / Unsplash Update your operating system Regardless of whether you're using a Windows PC with iTunes or a recent version of macOS, you should also ensure that your operating system is fully up to date with the latest Windows updates or macOS software update. This is especially important with macOS, since many of the components that are used to communicate with your iPhone are in the underlying operating system.
Step 1: If you're using Windows 10 or later, you can check for updates by going to Settings > Update & Security > Windows Update.
Step 2: For macOS Ventura (13.0) or later, check for updates by selecting the Apple menu in the top-left corner of your screen, and then selecting System Settings > General > Software Update.
On macOS Monterey (12.0) or earlier, this is found under System Preferences > Software Update from the same Apple menu in the top-left corner.
Step 3: Follow the steps to download and install any updates your computer finds, and then try restoring your iOS device or iPod after the updates have been applied and your computer has restarted.
Note that if you're doing a major macOS version update ending in macOS Mojave (10.14) or earlier, you should also check to ensure that you're running the latest version of iTunes that's appropriate for the new OS. For example, after updating from Sierra to Mojave, you may need to go to Software Update again to get iTunes 12.9.5.
Szabo Viktor / Unsplash Put your device in recovery mode If you're encountering error 4013 while trying to restore your device back to factory settings, you may be able to get things working by forcing your iPhone, iPad, or iPod Touch into recovery mode. This is a hardware-level mode that bypasses the normal iOS/iPadOS method of interfacing with your computer, which can help if the error is being caused by a software glitch on the device side.
Step 1: Follow the steps in the previous sections to ensure that your computer operating system and iTunes (if applicable) are updated to the latest versions.
Step 2: Reboot your Mac or PC.
Step 3: Connect your iPhone, iPad, or iPod Touch to your computer using a USB cable. Ignore error 4013 or any other errors that come up. Quit iTunes if it opens automatically after connecting your device.
Step 4: If you're running macOS Catalina (10.15) or later, open Finder ; otherwise open iTunes (or reopen iTunes if you quit it in the previous step).
Step 5: Keep your device connected to your computer while performing the following steps, depending on the model of your device. Note that these are the same steps described in the section on restarting your device; the difference in this case is that you're doing them while your iPhone, iPad, or iPod Touch is connected to your computer.
For a 2017 or later iPhone model -- including the iPhone 8, iPhone 8 Plus, iPhone SE (2020), iPhone SE (2022), and all Face ID-equipped iPhones -- press and quickly release the volume up button, then do the same with the volume down button, and then press and hold the side button until you see the recovery mode screen appear.
For the iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus, and seventh-generation iPod Touch, press and hold the top/side button and volume down buttons simultaneously until you see the recovery mode screen appear.
For the iPhone 6s and iPhone SE (2016) or earlier models, press and hold both the home and top/side buttons simultaneously until you see the recovery mode screen appear.
Apple Step 6: Once the recovery mode screen appears, your device should appear in Finder or iTunes with a pop-up that indicates there's a problem with your device "that requires it to be updated or restored." Select either Update to attempt to install the latest version of iOS/iPadOS on your device without erasing it, or Restore to return it to factory settings.
If an update fails, you can repeat the above steps and try the Restore option instead. This will erase everything on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod Touch, returning it to brand new settings, after which you can set it up from scratch and choose to restore a backup from your computer or iCloud, if you have one available.
Other steps you can try to fix error 4013 Since this is a communications error, there are several other things that could be getting in the way of a successful restore of your iPhone, iPad, or iPod.
Step 1: Check your USB cable. Ensure you're using an Apple-certified Lightning or USB-C cable — the one that came with your device should work — and that it's undamaged. Try a different cable if you have one on hand. While any reputable brand-name cable should also work fine, many of the cheaper aftermarket Lightning cables you'll find in stores are designed for charging your device and may not handle data transfer properly.
Step 2: If you're using a Windows PC, ensure that your drivers are up to date. You can check for Windows driver updates published through Microsoft under Settings > Update & Security > Windows Update ; however, if you don't see anything new here, it's worth also visiting your PC manufacturer's website and seeing if they have any driver updates available for direct download. You'll want to focus particularly on USB and "chipset" drivers, as these are the ones most likely to impact communication with your iPhone, iPad, or iPod.
Step 3: Temporarily disable any antivirus or other tools that attempt to scan the devices you connect to your PC. These can get in the way of iTunes communicating properly with your iOS device or iPod. You're unlikely to need these while restoring your device, and if that fixes the problem, you can always reenable them when you're done.
Step 4: Try restoring from a different computer if you have access to one. This will help to determine if the problem is with your PC or Mac or your iPhone, iPad, or iPod. If the problem persists across multiple computers and with different cables, it's probably your device, at which point it's time to reach out to Apple Support for help.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 How to unblock a number on your iPhone iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app Apple Apple Apple iPhone How-To Guides Mobile Every year, we get a new iPhone; that’s just the way it goes. And one of the biggest upgrades each year is with the camera system.
Though the spotlight is typically on the Pro models of the iPhone, Apple gave us a pretty significant upgrade this year with the standard iPhone 15. Of course, it’s not as feature-packed as the iPhone 15 Pro, but Apple brought the Dynamic Island and USB-C to the regular iPhone 15, and even bumped up the camera to a whopping 48MP.
Mobile The iPhone has so many clever and fun little features that it's easy to miss some of them. One of the most whimsical features to come along in recent years is the ability to lift the subject of a photo away from the background so you can use it elsewhere — whether that's sharing it in an email, pasting it into a photo editing app, or even turning it into an iMessage sticker in iOS 17.
What's especially fascinating about this is that it seems like such a simple thing to do — and Apple does make it really easy — but there's a ton of number crunching going on under the hood to make it happen. This means you'll need an iPhone with a reasonably modern processor, but the good news is that it doesn't have to be the latest and greatest iPhone 15 Pro. While the insanely powerful A17 Pro chip in Apple's flagship smartphone surely helps things along, this feature can be used on any iPhone with an A12 Bionic chip or later, which goes back to the 2018 iPhone XS and iPhone XR.
Mobile I’ve been using an iPhone ever since 2008, starting with the original and then every generation since. For several years, the iPhone was only capable of SMS texting, with MMS support arriving with iOS 3 in 2009.
But in 2011, Apple created something new: iMessage. It first arrived on iOS and then went to the Mac in 2012 to replace iChat. iMessage is basically an instant messaging service that is exclusive to all Apple products: iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, and Mac. You can send text, images and video, documents, rich preview links, stickers, and more between one another. You can also see if a message is delivered, send read receipts (if you want), and everything is encrypted. With iOS 16, you can even edit and unsend messages within a certain time frame.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
