Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Your next Android phone could have one of the iPhone’s best features By Jesse Hollington Close Qualcomm Whether you love or hate the iPhone, there’s no arguing that one area in which Apple excels is building ecosystems. Twenty years ago, the iPod spurred Mac adoption, and today the company has a broad array of products and solutions that work together seamlessly from your pocket to your living room and beyond.
This is Snapdragon Seamless What can Snapdragon Seamless do? Whether that’s copying text on your MacBook and pasting it on your iPhone , unlocking your Mac with your Apple Watch , or effortlessly moving whatever you’re listening to between an Apple TV , HomePod , and set of AirPods , Apple has almost perfected the magical “just works” experience of using its products together.
In more recent years, Google and Samsung have worked to do the same within their respective ecosystems, with Pixel and Galaxy phones joined by accompanying earbuds, tablets, and Android TV solutions. Now, Qualcomm is coming to the table with a much better solution that promises to unify all Android devices and accessories so they “work as one.” 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone I’m anxious and excited about this bonkers, industry-changing phone chip I tested the Pixel 8 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro. This one has the best camera This is Snapdragon Seamless Qualcomm During today’s Snapdragon Summit , Qualcomm announced the next innovation in its Snapdragon chip technology. Dubbed “Snapdragon Seamless,” it’s a cross-platform solution that will allow all devices powered by its Qualcomm Snapdragon series of chips to share information and provide easy multi-device experiences so they can work as one integrated system.
Unlike Apple, Google, and Samsung, this won’t be another one-vendor ecosystem. Qualcomm’s Snapdragon chips are found in nearly every Android smartphone and tablet on the market, and they’re starting to find their way into more traditional Windows PCs, too. Hence, Qualcomm has a large list of partners to choose from, and it’s already signed on Microsoft, Android, Xiaomi, Asus, Honor, Lenovo, and Oppo for its first collaboration “to create multi-device experiences enabled by Snapdragon Seamless.” While the announcement only came today, Qualcomm and its partners have clearly been working on this for a while, as the chipmaker says the first devices with Snapdragon Seamless could arrive later this year. The solutions go beyond merely exchanging data between phones, tablets, and laptops to even empowering mice and keyboards to work seamlessly across multiple devices.
The best part of this is that you won’t need to worry if you’re using a Microsoft Surface with an Asus smartphone and a Lenovo tablet ; they’ll all just work together as one happy family of devices — as long as they have Qualcomm’s latest silicon, of course.
“Snapdragon Seamless fundamentally breaks down the barriers between [manufacturers], devices, and operating systems. It’s the only cross-device solution to truly put the user first,” said Dino Bekis, Qualcomm’s vice president and general manager of wearables and mixed signal solutions.
Qualcomm Unsurprisingly, Snapdragon Seamless is etched into Qualcomm’s latest chips, so don’t expect it to appear as an update for older devices. However, it should be available in all the new flagships, as the company says it’s incorporated into the new Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 mobile platform — the chip that will undoubtedly power next year’s Samsung Galaxy S24 series — as well as the Snapdragon X Elite PC chipset and wearables and hearables that use Qualcomm chips, such as the Snapdragon Sound platform thatvrelies on the Qualcomm S7 Pro Gen 1 chip.
For now, Qualcomm is focusing on those specific platforms, but it plans to extend Snapdragon Seamless to extended reality hardware and automotive and Internet of Things platforms down the road.
What can Snapdragon Seamless do? Qualcomm Out of the gate, Snapdragon Seamless will cover the most popular multi-device scenarios, providing easy discovery of devices on multiple platforms, file transfer, screen and file sharing, and intelligent audio switching.
In practical terms, this means you’ll be able to drag and drop a file from a Qualcomm-powered laptop to your Android smartphone without the need to go through a complicated pairing and discovery process; both devices should immediately be visible to each other as a possible destination for your files. The same technique would be used to initiate a screen-sharing session.
Intelligent audio switching is something that Apple, Google, and Samsung users are likely already familiar with. It allows AirPods, Pixel Buds, or Galaxy Buds to transparently hand off audio between their respective devices — such as when a call comes in on your iPhone while you’re listening to music on your MacBook.
However, Snapdragon Seamless will take this a step further, thanks to its cross-platform nature. For the first time, you’ll be able to do this even when all of your devices are made by different vendors — including the earbuds.
Qualcomm While extended reality (XR) applications are a bit further down the road, Qualcomm showed off an XR Fitness demo that illustrated how a pair of smart glasses could show a personal trainer and workout metrics superimposed over the wearer’s eyes. This was intended to show the scale of the Snapdragon Seamless platform, which would presumably be used to link up the glasses to whatever device is being used to host the workout.
Again, the biggest catch to all of this is that these devices need to be powered by Qualcomm’s Snapdragon chips. That’s very common among Android smartphones and tablets, but less so with laptops, headphones, and earbuds.
Qualcomm naturally hopes that Snapdragon Seamless will encourage more manufacturers to adopt its latest Qualcomm chips, but there’s one thing that seems clear — Apple fans are going to be left out of the multi-platform party. Although Qualcomm says that Snapdragon Seamless is “open to everyone,” that should be read as everyone who builds Android, Windows, and Snapdragon devices. With the exception of its 5G modem chips, Apple doesn’t rely on Qualcomm’s Snapdragon platform, which means that iPhone and iPad owners are just going to have to continue enjoying life in their own walled gardens.
Editors' Recommendations Qualcomm’s newest chip will bring AI to cheaper Android phones The iPhone’s futuristic satellite tech isn’t coming to Android any time soon I turned my iPhone into one of 2023’s coolest Android phones The Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 is here, and it’s a big deal for Android phones I have 7 tips to help you take great pictures with your iPhone Qualcomm Qualcomm Snapdragon Summit Tech News Mobile I’ve really liked many of the Motorola phones I’ve used this year, from the excellent Motorola Razr Plus and Motorola Razr 40 to the interesting, but odd Motorola ThinkPhone.
But I’m increasingly annoyed by the lack of one simple feature across all of them. It’s beginning to really bother me, as I don’t understand why Motorola refuses to add it in. I’m talking about a true always-on screen.
No permanent always-on option Mobile Apple’s next-generation iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Pro models are finally here. The entire iPhone 15 lineup has Dynamic Island and USB-C. With the standard iPhone 15, you get the A16 Bionic that was introduced last year, and the iPhone 15 Pro models get the new A17 Pro chip and Action button. And if you opt for the iPhone 15 Pro Max, you also get the brand new tetraprism telephoto lens for 5x optical zoom capabilities.
While the new hardware changes are nice, Apple also has some new software features that are exclusive to the iPhone 15 lineup. One of these is the new Auto Portrait mode, and as a parent of a very active toddler, this is one of the most exciting things for me about the entire iPhone 15 lineup.
What is Auto Portrait? Mobile I find myself unable to use smartphones at night because they strain my eyes, which in turn causes headaches. If you are anything like me, you probably dislike having a smartphone screen in front of you in conditions when light is dim ot nonexistent. Or worse, you might have developed Pulse-Width Modulation (PWM) sensitivity, which can make you feel nauseous when using a phone at night. This is solved by the Honor 90.
I’m privileged to have multiple phones at my disposal, and the Honor 90 has become my go-to phone for nighttime reading and research because of its 3840Hz PWM display. But to understand the solution, we must first understand PWM dimming and its effects on human eyes.
What is PWM dimming, and how does the Honor 90 help? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
