Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 7 best Peaky Blinders episodes, ranked By Joe Allen Close Although it’s been over for several years, Peaky Blinders was one of the defining hits for Netflix while it was on the air. The show, set in the aftermath of World War I, follows the Peaky Blinders, one of the most powerful gangs in London. The show is a gangster drama in the best sense, filled with meaty conversations, plenty of propulsive plot, and a great lead performance by Oppenheimer ‘s Cillian Murphy.
7. Mr. Jones (season 5, episode 6) 6. The Duel (season 4, episode 5) 5. Lock and Key (season 6, episode 6) 4. The Company (season 4, episode 6) 3. Season 3, episode 2 2. Season 2, episode 6 1. Season 3, episode 6 Over the course of six seasons, Peaky Blinders had a number of standout episodes, but these were the ones that stood out most. These are the seven best episodes from Peaky Blinders’ 36-episode run.
7. Mr. Jones (season 5, episode 6) Netflix One of the best things about Peaky Blinders is the way it inserts its characters into actual history, and that’s perfectly executed in the season 5 finale. As Tommy works to execute his plan to kill Father Mosley as he’s delivering a sermon, anyone who has done some light Googling knows that Mosley is going to survive and live for decades to come.
The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best Black movies on Netflix right now Things inevitably go sideways, and Tommy loses some friends in the process. Tommy hates everything that Mosley stands for, but this time, the season’s grand villain gets away with it.
6. The Duel (season 4, episode 5) Netflix The episode that sets the scene for the season 4 finale, The Duel is also plenty thrilling in its own right. Tommy and Luca Changretta nearly come to blows, and although that brawl is ultimately broken up, Luca has other sinister designs in mind, and heads to London to discuss assassinating Arthur.
The Duel also gives us plenty of Alfie, and The Dark Knight Rises star Tom Hardy knows how to make a meal out of every moment he gets on screen. Season 4 was Peaky Blinders operating at the peak of its powers, and The Duel provides an appropriately grand penultimate chapter.
5. Lock and Key (season 6, episode 6) Netflix Anyone who has ever seen a TV show knows that sticking the landing is incredibly difficult. Tying up loose ends while reminding us that Tommy’s adventures won’t end just because we stop watching them, Lock and Key forgoes a kind of epic climax in favor of quieter, more isolated action beats.
Lock and Key is not the most shocking episode of Peaky Blinders , but it delivers the exact right level of closure, allowing fans to feel satisfied that the show they’ve invested so much in has reached its natural endpoint.
4. The Company (season 4, episode 6) Netflix Asteroid City ‘s Adrien Brody was one of the best guest stars in the entirety of Peaky Blinders , and he gets a wonderfully operatic ending here.
The Company gives the Shelby family its rare happy ending, but this episode is pretty tense in and of itself.
Arthur, who has been with the show since the beginning, seems to die, but his death is faked, and Brody’s Luca is ultimately dispatched. Season 4 ends with multiple triumphs, though, as Tommy also finds himself elected to parliament after getting some crucial information from Alfie.
3. Season 3, episode 2 Netflix Perhaps the most shocking moment in the history of Peaky Blinders comes in this episode when Tommy and Grace’s love story comes to a tragic end. In the season premiere, Tommy and Grace got married, but Peaky Blinders doesn’t offer its characters happy endings.
That’s why, in the very next episode, Grace is shot and killed by a mysterious assassin. This moment gives us one of the show’s highlights for Cillian Murphy, who just wants his wife to stay alive. The assassin is tracked down and killed, but what’s remarkable about this episode is how well it manages to live in Tommy’s grief.
2. Season 2, episode 6 Netflix The season 2 finale features Tommy settling his affairs, and it’s immensely satisfying in large part because of the accumulation of individual scenes it contains. The season 2 finale also features Polly getting some revenge on Inspector Campbell.
Really, though, the focus here is on Tommy, and Cillian Murphy delivers a great performance throughout. Tommy thinks he is slated for death, and while he’s ultimately given a reprieve, this episode is appropriately mournful throughout.
1. Season 3, episode 6 Netflix A season finale that provides a perfect climax to the season, and also crucial setup to what may be the show’s best season, the season 3 finale is the perfect Peaky Blinders episode. After dealing with the loss of Grace earlier in the season, Tommy spends much of the finale trying to rescue his son Charles from the clutches of Father Hughes.
While that conflict gets resolved in grim, satisfying fashion, and the episode’s final moments are dedicated to the arrest of the Shelby family, which is what ultimately turns them against Tommy, setting up the conflict that will define season 4.
All six seasons of Peaky Blinders can be streamed on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked Hundreds of classic Doctor Who episodes are now streaming on Tubi for free The 10 most popular TV shows on Netflix right now 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December Entertainment Science fiction, as a genre, can demand a lot from the actors involved. They're tasked with reciting the kind of scientific mumbo jumbo that all sci-fi scripts contain and are forced to find ways to make it compelling.
Great sci-fi actors know how to leverage their on-screen personas to create compelling characters, even if those characters live in a world that is not exactly like our own. These seven actors proved that sci-fi is a genre that can be conquered by the right presence.
Sigourney Weaver Entertainment The best stand-up comedy on Netflix right now is both current with the times and as old as the genre itself. Pete Holmes and Beth Stelling are among the new additions to the streaming service -- the latter is definitely a comedian worth getting to know. Additionally, classic sets from the likes of Ali Wong, Dave Chappelle, John Mulaney, and more are available at the touch of a button.
With new movies and shows coming to Netflix all the time, the stand-up comedy selection is always growing. We've parsed through the details and pulled out the best stand-up comedy on Netflix right now.
Looking for something else? We've also rounded up the best movies on Netflix, the best movies on Hulu, the best movies on Amazon Prime, and the best movies on Disney+. For Netflix fans, check out the 10 most popular shows on Netflix right now.
Pete Holmes: I Am Not for Everyone (2023) new Entertainment Few shows have as many great episodes as Breaking Bad. Over the course of its five seasons, the show produced a number of all-time great TV episodes, including several that are considered to be among the best in TV history.
Because Breaking Bad was so uniformly excellent, though, there are also plenty of great episodes that don't get the proper attention they deserve. These episodes may not get all the plaudits that one like Ozymandias received, but they are the episodes that remind us how great Breaking Bad was almost every week.
7. Cat's in the Bag (Season 1, Episode 2) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
