Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 3 concert movies to watch after Taylor Swift: The Eras Concert By Joe Allen Close Although there have been plenty of concert movies over the long history of musicians touring, there has never been anything quite like Taylor Swift: The Eras Concert.
 The documentary is set to hit theaters this weekend and is almost guaranteed to become the same type of phenomenon that the actual concerts were.
Stop Making Sense Homecoming (2019) The Last Waltz (1978) In time for that movie’s release, though, now seems like the perfect time to look back at the long history of concert docs to understand where The Eras Concert comes from. Here are three concert films you should check out after seeing Taylor’s latest.
Stop Making Sense Often thought of as the definitive concert documentary, Stop Making Sense has experienced a resurgence recently thanks to its re-release by A24. The movie documents a Talking Heads concert (well, really four Talking Heads concerts), and does not feature any of the usual behind-the-scenes intrigue that sometimes define these movies.
5 movies like Killers of the Flower Moon you should watch Is Taylor Swift: The Eras Tour concert movie streaming? 3 Edgar Allan Poe horror movies to watch after Netflix’s Fall of the House of Usher Instead, we can just be mesmerized by the actual performances of the entire band, who slowly come to the stage after singer David Byrne starts the show by himself. Whether you’re a Talking Heads fan or not, Jonathan Demme’s direction transformed Stop Making Sense into the most mesmerizing concert documentary ever made.
Homecoming (2019) No one puts in the work quite the way Beyoncé does, and Homecoming allows us to see that work on full display. Giving the public the chance to watch her legendary performances at Coachella, where she was accompanied by a marching band, Homecoming also gives us insight into how the legendary singer and entertainer prepared for these seismic shows.
Featuring some of the best editing you’re ever likely to see in a concert documentary, Homecoming is a marvel to behold, and manages to fully immerse you in what it must have been like to be present for such a rapturous, thrilling pair of performances.
The Last Waltz (1978) One of several concert documentaries Martin Scorsese has made over the course of his career, The Last Waltz follows The Band as they perform their last concert together in San Francisco in 1978. Featuring interviews with the band and several famous faces around them, The Last Waltz is really thrilling because of the many incredible performers who take the stage during the concert, including Bob Dylan, Van Morrison, Eric Clapton, Joni Mitchell, and Muddy Waters.
Whether you’re a fan of The Band or have no idea who they are, it’s worth checking out The Last Waltz to see how Scorsese shoots the whole thing and to see legend after legend take the stage.
Editors' Recommendations 3 underrated movies on Peacock you need to watch in November This Taylor Swift documentary is on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it.
3 great action movies on Max you need to watch in October 3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in October 3 underrated movies on Peacock you need to watch in October Entertainment This week marks the official start of fall, and that means the end-of-summer box office drought is about to come to an end. But if you're wondering which films deserve your hard-earned money, we've come up with five theatrical movies that you need to watch in October.
For the month ahead, we've picked a horror flick that will hopefully revitalize The Exorcist franchise, as well as an adaptation of the horror video game series, Five Nights At Freddy's. Additionally, Apple Studios is releasing Martin Scorsese's next crime epic in theaters, while Netflix is also giving David Fincher's new movie a short run as well. Beyond that, the month belongs to the Swifties. These are the five theatrical movies you can't miss in October.
The Exorcist: Believer (October 6) Entertainment Hulu may be controlled by Disney, but it has many of the decidedly non-Disney films from 20th Century Studios that make it an ideal streamer for action fans. If you're looking for R-rated thrills or action flicks that don't hold back, Hulu is one of your superior options. In addition to the movies from the classic Fox catalog, Hulu also borrows a few titles from other studios to shore up its library. And action is by far one of the most well-represented genres on Hulu.
Our selections for the three action movies on Hulu that you need to watch on Hulu are very James Cameron-heavy since he directed two out of the three choices. But considering how great Cameron is with action, these were pretty easy picks to make. However, you may want to move fast on these since two of these films are leaving Hulu on September 30.
True Lies (1994) Entertainment Who doesn’t love a good sci-fi flick? They are usually mind-bending, intriguing, and exciting. They’re the types of movies you can talk about after watching, sharing theories and discussing the amazing special effects, cast, and clever storylines. Sometimes, sci-fi movies have a humorous edge and other times they dive deep into tech. With AI at the forefront of many sci-fi movies and shows nowadays, there’s a bit of art imitating life as well.
Amazon Prime Video has tons of great sci-fi movies. If you’re looking for a good sci-fi movie to watch this September, check out these three diverse options on Prime Video, each with its own unique spin on the genre.
Interface (2022) INTERFACE - Official Trailer Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
