Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 5 great Ben Affleck movies you should watch By Joe Allen Close Few actors have had the kind of strange, varied career that Ben Affleck has assembled over the past three decades. From his roots in small indie projects to his days playing Batman , few actors have experimented with what their star personas actually are more than Affleck.
Gone Girl (2014) Armageddon (1998) Argo (2012) Good Will Hunting (1997) The Last Duel (2021) Across that wild career, though, Affleck has assembled a number of great movies that are well worth watching. He’s done this as both an actor and a director, proving consistently that he’s not afraid to take risks. That’s what has made him a lasting star, and these are the movies that he’s likely to be remembered for.
Gone Girl (2014) It’s no insult to Affleck to say that Gone Girl is almost undoubtedly his best performance. Telling the story of a married couple in the wake of the wife’s disappearance, Gone Girl is the best high-brow trash you’re ever likely to watch on a screen. Affleck plays that married man, who slowly comes to realize that he’s the main suspect in his wife’s disappearance.
5 great comedies from the past 5 years you should watch right now 5 Matthew Perry movies and TV shows you should watch besides Friends 5 movies like Five Nights at Freddy’s you should watch right now The movie’s twists and turns are far too good to spoil, but suffice it to say that Affleck’s smarmy persona makes him an ideal fit for a movie about a man who probably didn’t commit murder, but definitely seems like someone who could .
Armageddon (1998) This is Affleck in full movie star mode, and he mostly pulls it off, in spite of how silly he evidently thought the movie was. Affleck is part of the core team of oil drillers who are recruited for a fairly ludicrous mission to explode an asteroid that’s headed straight for Earth. What makes Armageddon work, though, is every actor’s total commitment to the bit — and that includes Affleck.
Few actors have had a more tortured relationship with their own stardom than Affleck, but in Armageddon , he proved that he has the charisma it takes to lead a movie.
Argo (2012) The movie that earned Affleck a Best Picture win as a producer, Argo is also one of the actor’s better star vehicles. Oh, and he also directed it. Affleck plays a CIA agent who is forced to work with a Hollywood studio to create a fake movie in order to help bring an end to the Iranian hostage crisis. It’s a pretty crazy true story, and Affleck is its solid center.
He leaves the flashier performances to the other actors in his ensemble, but as both an actor and director, Affleck proves that he has total control of tone. With Argo , he made the kind of tense thriller that will likely remain one of his best-remembered movies.
Good Will Hunting (1997) Affleck plays a small supporting role in Good Will Hunting , but it’s impossible to overstate how important the movie was for both his career and Matt Damon’s. The two co-wrote the screenplay together, and on top of that, they both took on roles in the movie.
Affleck plays Damon’s friend, the regular guy who wants nothing more than for his friend to get out of Dodge and start living the big life that he knows Will is meant for.
Good Will Hunting is really Damon’s movie, but it wouldn’t work at all without Affleck’s signature speech near the movie’s conclusion.
The Last Duel (2021) Affleck can be great in almost any kind of role, but silly Affleck might be the very best.
The Last Duel is a very dour movie about sexual assault in medieval France, but Affleck is its main source of levity in a supporting role. He plays a frivolous noble who finds himself more annoyed by all the drama happening in his fiefdom than anything else.
Affleck is genuinely hilarious in the role, even as we come to understand fairly quickly that he’s not on the right side of history. Few actors can take on this kind of supporting part and totally steal the movie, but that’s exactly what Affleck does.
Editors' Recommendations 5 best death game movies you should watch right now 5 movies like Netflix’s The Killer you should watch right now 5 Reese Witherspoon movies you should watch in November 5 best sci-fi movies from the past 5 years you should watch right now 5 best Halloween horror movies on Netflix you should watch Entertainment The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford Warner Bros.
After years of anticipation, Martin Scorsese’s latest movie, Killers of the Flower Moon, is finally here. The film, an adaptation of David Grann’s 2017 nonfiction novel of the same name, explores the real-life murders that were carried out against members of the Osage Nation after oil was discovered under their lands in 1920s Oklahoma. Running 206 minutes long and starring Scorsese mainstays like Leonardo DiCaprio and Robert De Niro, as well as a quietly transcendent Lily Gladstone, the drama is a chilling exploration of greed, systemic racism, and white supremacy.
Entertainment This week, Amazon Studios' sci-fi thriller, Foe, is in limited release, and it will come to Amazon Prime Video at a later date. Iain Reid, the author of the original novel, co-wrote the script with director Garth Davis. The film takes place at some point in the future, and it features Saoirse Ronan as Henrietta, with Paul Mescal as her husband, Junior.
While Henrietta and Junior live a quiet life on their farm, a stranger, Terrance (Aaron Pierre), offers Junior the chance of a lifetime to live and work on a farming space station for two years. Terrance even promises a companion for Henrietta who will keep her safe during Junior's absence. However, Junior soon suspects that his replacement will be none other than Terrance himself.
Entertainment Few movie stars have had a more unlikely rise than Seth Rogen. The Canadian actor has proven over his years as a mainstream star that he can be genuinely hilarious, but it turns out that he can also really act.
He's taken on plenty of challenging roles over the course of his career, as well as some that really steer into the everyman qualities that make him so appealing. These movies showcase the full range Rogen is capable of, and are also five great movies worth checking out this October.
The Fabelmans (2022) The Fabelmans | Official Trailer [HD] Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
