Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 5 great Jake Gyllenhaal movies you should watch By Joe Allen Close Few actors have had stranger careers than Prisoners star Jake Gyllenhaal. After emerging on the scene with Donnie Darko (a movie that didn’t make this list, but you should definitely check out if you haven’t already), Gyllenhaal has experimented with a wide array of different personas before ultimately realizing that he may be best as a sort of character actor who can also play lead roles.
Zodiac (2007) Wildlife (2018) Stronger (2017) Brokeback Mountain (2005) Nightcrawler (2014) His career has included plenty of genuinely great movies, but these five really rise to the top, and are the ones that you should almost certainly check out first if you haven’t seen them already.
Zodiac (2007) David Fincher tends to wear his actors down, and Gyllenhaal was no exception. Playing a cartoonist for the San Francisco Chronicle in the early 1970s as the Zodiac killer is murdering people in the Bay Area, Gyllenhaal stars as an obsessed man who is utterly fascinated by the killings.
3 movies leaving Peacock in November you have to watch 5 best death game movies you should watch right now 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November As the movie unfolds, we come to understand that this movie is not about solving a case, but about living with the knowledge that the case may never be solved. Gyllenhaal is at his manic, quirky best here, giving a performance that perfectly underscores the perils of obsession, even if that obsession is a noble one.
Wildlife (2018) The Batman ‘s Paul Dano is still known best as an actor, but Wildlife is his directorial debut, and it’s proof that he could be excellent at that as well. The movie is told from the perspective of a young boy as his father, played by Gyllenhaal, leaves his family to fight a massive wildfire in Montana.
Gyllenhaal’s part here is firmly a supporting role, but his character’s struggles with providing for his family the way the film suggests he is supposed to provide some of the movie’s strongest moments. Elsewhere, Carey Mulligan puts on a show-stopping performance and proves definitively that she can be amazing in virtually any role.
Stronger (2017) Perhaps one of the less well-known Gyllenhaal performances, Stronger stars the actor as Jeff Bauman, a real man who lost both of his legs during the Boston Marathon bombing. Jeff ultimately helps police identify one of the bombers, but the movie is really about his struggle to build a life for himself in the wake of the physical and emotional damage he’s experienced.
It’s one of Gyllenhaal’s best performances, and he’s matched perfectly by She-Hulk ‘s Tatiana Maslany, one of the great unsung actors of her generation.
Stronger may seem like a standard inspiring true story, but to the credit of everyone involved, it turns out to be much richer than that.
Brokeback Mountain (2005) Brokeback Mountain was enormously successful, and enormously controversial when it was released in 2005. At the time, Heath Ledger’s performance was the one that most people spent time praising, but in the years since, many have come to appreciate that Ledger was only able to give his quieter, more reserved performance because of Gyllenhaal’s tremendous work as his primary scene partner.
Brokeback Mountain is delicate and heartbreaking, and the movie simply wouldn’t work if Gyllenhaal wasn’t so staggeringly great in a central role. Like many great Gyllenhaal performances, it’s still underrated by almost everyone and deserves reconsideration.
Nightcrawler (2014) The most vaunted performance of his career to date, Gyllenhaal lost a bunch of weight to play Louis Bloom, an enterprising thief who stumbles into a career as a cameraman who arrives at grisly scenes as they unfold and captures real-time footage with as much detail as possible.
The movie’s twists and turns are both fun to watch and entirely predictable, and Gyllenhaal’s total commitment to the performance helps to sell the entire enterprise.
Nightcrawler is an unsettling movie, and to his credit, Gyllenhaal’s performance is the most unsettling thing about it.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 7 video game movie and TV adaptations we can’t wait to watch 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December Entertainment The Paramount+ selection of sci-fi movies is very thin in the month of November. That's truly unfortunate for fans of the genre who can't live on Star Trek movies alone. And frankly, it would get pretty boring if we had to pick one Star Trek film to recommend every month.
Unfortunately, in order to get to three sci-fi movies to watch on Paramount+ in November, we had to pick one from the higher tier, Paramount+ with Showtime. We prefer to avoid doing that, but if Paramount+ doesn't improve its sci-fi selection next month, then we may have to do it again.
Event Horizon (1997) Entertainment Long before there were streaming services, PBS was bringing together programming from all over the world to go along with original documentaries, news programming, and scripted dramas. The best part is that PBS was -- and continues to be -- free of charge. You don't need to be a PBS member to watch some of the best documentary programs that you can find, but it would definitely help these teams continue making the shows that you want to watch.
For this month, we've chosen the three PBS shows that you should watch in November, including a harrowing look at the war in Ukraine, an extremely enjoyable history of ninjas, and a documentary about the groundbreaking women's sports rule Title IX, which paved the way for female athletes to get the spotlight that they deserve. For more PBS shows, you can check out our roundup of everything coming to PBS in November.
Frontline: 20 Days in Mariupol Entertainment Who's in the mood for an action film? Netflix has an impressive slate of action films that only improves with the addition of new films every month. New arrivals include Liam Neeson's Cold Pursuit, David Fincher's The Killer, and Adam Wingard's Godzilla vs. Kong.
This November, we curated a list of three action movies you need to watch on Netflix. Our action picks include one of the best war movies ever made, an underrated Clint Eastwood thriller, and Michael Bay at his finest.
Saving Private Ryan (1998) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
