Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Check out one of the great sports movies ever made before it leaves Prime Video next week By Joe Allen Close Every great streaming service has a bevy of worthy movies for you to check out. Unfortunately, given the fractured nature of the streaming landscape, it can be nearly impossible to keep track of what titles are on what service.
It’s the template for all your favorite sports movies It features Walter Matthau at the peak of his powers It’s got plenty of romance about baseball Prime Video has an ideal combination of archived titles and originals, and one of those archived titles is well worth checking out before it leaves the service.
The Bad News Bears is one of the great sports movies of the 1970s. Here are three reasons you should check it out before the movie leaves Prime Video at the end of October.
It’s the template for all your favorite sports movies Paramount Pictures If you’ve ever loved a sports movie about a ragtag group of kids, there’s a good chance you would also love The Bad News Bears.
 The film follows an alcoholic former pro who starts coaching for a little league team.
3 underrated movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 great PG-13 horror movies to check out if you like the Five Nights at Freddy’s movie Check out this great romantic drama before it leaves Netflix next week The movie’s ragtag team is filled with some of the most foul-mouthed kids you’re ever likely to come across, and Tatum O’Neal’s central role cemented her as one of the great young stars of the 1970s. Most crucially, though, the movie resolves itself by realizing that kids’ sports don’t need to be hypercompetitive. Baseball is supposed to be fun, and the second it no longer is, it feels pointless to play.
It features Walter Matthau at the peak of his powers As Morris Buttermaker, Walter Matthau has maybe never been better. Although he spends the lion’s share of the movie interacting with children, Matthau manages to sell every interaction as he plays a coach who comes to genuinely care about the players on his team.
The scenes he shares with O’Neal are particularly sizzling, filled with the kind of banter that only a laconic actor like Matthau could deliver. Few people could play grumps quite as well as he did, but what made Matthau’s grumps work so well is that you could always sense that there was a soft, nougaty center underneath just waiting to emerge.
It’s got plenty of romance about baseball Paramount Pictures Few sports translate as well to the big screen as baseball does, and The Bad News Bears knows how to take advantage of the tension and romanticism that the sport can provide. Baseball is a sport rife with interpersonal drama, and The Bad News Bears makes every character on this team of misfits feel like a person, in part because we fully understand how they play together as a team.
Not every great sports movie is about baseball, but there are more great sports movies about baseball than there are about any other sport, and The Bad News Bears is right up there with the best.
The Bad News Bears is streaming on Prime Video until November 1, 2023. If you’re a football fan, check out the 5 best football movies ever made.
Editors' Recommendations The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) This action war movie is popular on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it Check out this great movie before it leaves Hulu next week Check out this underrated movie before it leaves (HBO) Max next week 5 best Halloween horror movies on Netflix you should watch Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment Movies are always leaving Prime Video, but new ones are being added all the time, too. Nonetheless, it’s the worst feeling when you see a great movie you want to check out, and then when you finally have time to queue it up, it’s gone from the streaming service.
Before that happens again, check out these five movies leaving Prime Video in October you have to watch. Some are foreign-language films hailing from top directors like Guillermo del Toro and featuring well-known actors like Penelope Cruz. Another is the first (and only) movie ever to earn a Black woman a Best Actress Academy Award, while another is a Hallmark TV movie that was so popular that it spawned six follow-ups and a TV show.
The Devil’s Backbone (2001) The Devil's Backbone (2001) Trailer #1 | Movieclips Classic Trailers Entertainment Although Hulu has a very impressive lineup of movies, it's also losing five of its best movies at the end of the month. Many of the horror flicks that were brought in for Huluween are also going out the door. And there are less than three weeks to catch these five movies leaving Hulu at the end of October.
To help you get the most out of your Hulu subscription, we've put together this list of five films that exemplify what Hulu has to offer. These are the five movies leaving Hulu in October that you have to watch.
Seven (1995) Entertainment Among the dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in October is a new film that stars Jamie Foxx and Tommy Lee Jones. Already receiving rave reviews, The Burial is one worth watching. But we also include two classics on this list, one that earned six Academy Award nominations back in the early 2000s and another from decades ago that, despite having received its share of criticism, is considered one of the defining movies of the 1980s.
If you’re looking for something to watch in the drama category this October, we have you covered with three dramas that are worth your time. Whether you’re rewatching one of these films for the first time in decades or checking one out for the first time, none of these will disappoint.
Moneyball (2011) Moneyball - Trailer Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
