Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides This underrated 1994 Tom Cruise movie is on Hulu in October. Here’s why you should watch it By Joe Allen Close When you sit down to watch a movie like Interview with the Vampire , you realize almost immediately that they really don’t make them like they used to. The movie, which is now available to stream on Hulu , is a gothic horror movie about how sad it is to be a vampire, and it’s appearance on Hulu is perfectly timed for the Halloween season.
It features an all-star cast It’s filled with lush sets It has possibly unintentional queer undertones Interview with the Vampire is not an incredibly scary movie, but it definitely evokes fall in a couple of crucial ways. Now that it’s available to stream, here are three reasons you should check it out: It features an all-star cast Warner Bros.
Most of Interview with the Vampire focuses on the story of Brad Pitt’s Louis, a vampire who sees his life as a curse, and spends his days wandering the Earth trying to find happiness. Along the way, Louis encounters Tom Cruise’s Lestat, a mentor figure and sociopathic vampire who loves the thrill of the hunt. Lestat remains one of Cruise’s best and most deeply unhinged performances.
3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in November 3 underrated movies on Peacock you need to watch in November One of 2023’s best-reviewed movies is now on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it In addition to a standout supporting turn from Cruise, though, the movie also features great work from a young, but effervescent Kirsten Dunst, as well as Antonio Banderas, Christian Slater, and Thandiwe Newton. It’s a great cast that also screams 1990s.
It’s filled with lush sets Warner Bros.
Because much of Interview with the Vampire is a period piece, the movie also features some incredible sets, especially in its earliest sequences set in New Orleans. The movie spares no expense as it unveils its secret world of vampires, and these sets are the kind of thing that you rarely see in Hollywood movies today.
There’s also plenty of on-location shooting, another important reminder that there’s often no substitute for how things actually look in the real world. Louis may inhabit a world that is entirely unfamiliar to the humans he hunts, but Interview with the Vampire makes his world look and feel like the real one.
It has possibly unintentional queer undertones Warner Bros.
One of the great joys of this movie, which many were aware of at the time and has only become more apparent in recent years, is the homoeroticism laced through it. The seductive power of becoming a vampire is almost always communicated as happening from man to man, and Lestat, in particular, seems like someone who is in love with Louis and is overcompensating.
Really, though, Louis seems to have a mutual attraction with basically every male character in the movie, and it’s unclear whether that was something the filmmakers understood or not. Regardless, it makes for some genuinely gripping, tense scenes, particularly between this movie’s many male characters.
Editors' Recommendations This underrated 2023 horror movie on Netflix deserves more love. Here’s why you should watch it 3 underrated movies on Hulu you need to watch in November This action war movie is popular on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it The Devil on Trial might be Netflix’s most terrifying true crime movie. Here’s why you should watch it Bodies is one of Netflix’s most popular shows right now. Here’s why you should watch it Hulu Streaming Services Entertainment The best sci-fi movies often push the boundaries of what's possible to depict on the big screen by taking on complex fictional concepts that are often rooted in reality. Recent films in the category embrace the intersection between science, philosophy, and humanity, and use mind-blowing visuals and cutting-edge cinematography to bolster filmmakers' ambitious efforts.
From the visually stunning and otherworldly story told in Dune to the mind-bending mix of existentialism and the multiverse in Everything Everywhere All at Once, the greatest science fiction movies from the past five years represent the best that the genre has to offer. With so much to explore in the genre, these are the few standouts that should be considered essential viewing for fans.
Ad Astra (2019) Entertainment Halloween isn't for another week, but Netflix already has another treat for horror lovers. Creature, the new Turkish horror miniseries, has premiered on the 10 most popular shows on Netflix. It stars Taner Ölmez as Ziya, an idealistic young doctor whose determination to defeat death results in the creation of his own Creature (Erkan Kolçak Köstendil).
If you think that sounds like the plot of Mary Shelley's famous novel, Frankenstein, then you're not wrong. Çağan Irmak has put his own personal touches on the story that is at once familiar and different. And we've got three reasons why you should watch Creature this Halloween. We also have a viewing tip: Watch it in the original Turkish language with subtitles. The English dub isn't as convincing as the native tongue from the original.
A fresh coat of paint on a classic tale Entertainment It's officially spooky season, meaning it's finally time to binge as many horror movies as we can get our hands on.
One of the best parts of the Halloween season is celebrating with scary movies whether they feature goofy ghouls or bloody slashers. Unfortunately, this October doesn't have many big-time horror movies coming to theaters, though. The largest horror release would go to Five Nights at Freddy's on October 27, but the rest of the theater slate leaves much to be desired for horror fans. Thankfully, though, various streaming services are loading up their platforms with spooky hits to satiate our desires.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
