Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 5 Matthew Perry movies and TV shows you should watch besides Friends By Joe Allen Close In the aftermath of his death, many people have looked back on Friends ‘ star Matthew Perry ‘s entire career to find ways to appreciate what he brought to all of his various projects.
17 Again (2009) The Odd Couple (2015-2017) Go On (2012-2013) Studio 60 On the Sunset Strip (2006-2007) Fools Rush In (1997) While most people agree that Perry was never able to fully replicate the enormous success he had with Friends , he was undeniably a captivating screen presence, and there is a huge array of other TV and movie projects that highlight his skills as an actor and comedian.
His death was an undeniable tragedy , but Perry left us with plenty of great examples of just how brilliant he could be on-screen.
17 Again (2009) Perry’s last film role, 17 Again is an underrated comedy that Perry elevates from the second the movie begins. The movie, which is almost like a reverse version of Big , is primarily a Zac Efron vehicle and imagines a middle-aged man who finds himself transformed into his teenage self once again.
5 best death game movies you should watch right now 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November The film gives its opening and closing moments to Perry, though, and it’s Perry who elevates the movie’s comedy and laces it with vulnerability. While 17 Again may not be a perfect movie, it’s got plenty of charm, and Perry is one of the movie’s assets from the second he shows up on screen.
The Odd Couple (2015-2017) After you’ve starred in something like Friends , every other sitcom role you take on can feel like a bit of a comedown. Even so, Perry’s run on The Odd Couple captured much of the magic that made him one of the best joke deliverers on Friends.
The show was a reboot of a classic sitcom, and this version followed Perry as Oscar Madison and Thomas Lennon as his much more uptight roommate Felix Unger. Perry also served as an executive producer on this show, and while you might think that The Odd Couple is a little conventional, it’s hard to deny that it was funny.
Go On (2012-2013) A more unconventional dramedy, Go On follows Perry as a sports radio host who joins a support group to work through the death of his wife. Although Go On is, at least in theory, a comedy, it’s one that’s laced with meaty conversations about grief and death.
Perry didn’t often get the chance to show off his purely dramatic chops on Friends , but when he did, he showed impressive levels of pathos and vulnerability.
Go On gives him more opportunities to play the dramatic end of things, even as he maintains the wry wit that made him so popular on Friends.
Studio 60 On the Sunset Strip (2006-2007) Perry’s first post- Friends TV project was Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip , which also happened to be writer Aaron Sorkin’s follow-up to The West Wing.
 Set behind the scenes of a sketch comedy show that is similar to Saturday Night Live , but is emphatically not SNL , Studio 60 gave Perry a chance to deliver his take on some of the sharpest and most distinct writing on TV.
Studio 60 was not the kind of enormous success that The West Wing had been, but the show still has its defenders, and it’s undeniably a great opportunity for Perry to show what he was capable of.
Fools Rush In (1997) A romantic comedy that may have felt forgettable when it was first released, Fools Rush In feels like a revelation in retrospect. The movie, which was released while Friends was still fairly early in its run, follows Perry’s character as he is forced to confront real responsibilities for the first time.
A perpetual bachelor who finds out that he got a woman (played by Black Mirror ‘s Salma Hayek) pregnant during a one-night stand, he must wrestle with familial expectations and what he wants from his own life. It’s a wonderful performance from Perry, who on top of delivering solid jokes, also has wonderful chemistry with Hayek.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December Don’t let these 3 hidden gem November streaming TV shows fly under your radar 3 PBS shows you should watch in November Entertainment Generally, we tend to give streamers the benefit of the doubt when it comes to their film libraries. But there's no getting around the fact that the science fiction selection on Peacock is awful. For every Back to the Future, there are dozens of low-budget schlock-fests like Atlantic Rim, Lord of the Elves, and Dino King. Those are all real movies on Peacock, but they aren't worth your time. And unfortunately, there's nothing new on Peacock in November in the popular genre.
With such a thin selection to work with, it can be truly challenging to find sci-fi flicks on Peacock that are worth watching. But after an exhaustive search, we've come up with the following three sci-fi movies on Peacock that you need to watch in November.
Freejack (1992) Entertainment Sci-fi films never go out of style. From Alien and Back to the Future to Dune and Blade Runner, sci-fi films continue to improve thanks to new technology. Many sci-fi films find a home on Netflix and wind up on the streamer's 10 most popular movies list. Films like Don't Look Up, The Adam Project, and Bird Box are 10 of the most popular English films on Netflix ever.
The Adam Project is one of our picks for sci-fi movies to watch in November. Other selections include the epic sequel to Godzilla: King of the Monsters, and a sci-fi thriller about a pilot's fight for survival against the dinosaurs.
Godzilla vs. Kong (2021) Entertainment David Fincher's latest film, The Killer, is now streaming on Netflix, marking his first Fincher since 2020's black-and-white drama Mank. The Killer stars Michael Fassbender in a tense psychological thriller about a hitman who thrives on procedure. The man is solitary, cold, and methodical; no sense of regret or morality will stop him from his next target. The killer waits in the shadows and takes pride in being a professional. After a fateful near miss, though, he is forced to battle his employers — and himself — on an international manhunt.
The movie, described as a neo-noir action thriller, is a return to the dark, violent side of Fincher's filmography that has made many of his previous movies immensely memorable. If The Killer is your kind of movie, check out these five other movies similar to Fincher's latest.
Panic Room (2002) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
