Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 7 most gruesome deaths in sci-fi movies By Joe Allen Close One of the great things about science fiction as a genre is that it can be almost anything. Science fiction can be hopeful and utopian, and even more often, sci-fi can be dystopian, nihilistic, and full of darkness.
 Sometimes, though, great science fiction can also be terrifying.
Kane — Alien (1979) Everyone — Under the Skin (2014) Emil Antonowsky — RoboCop (1987) Vance Norris — The Thing (1982) Seth Brundle — The Fly (1986) Ekaterina Golovkina — Life (2017) Al Dillon — Predator (1987) Many of the best science fiction movies ever made feature grisly kills the likes of which you rarely see outside of the horror genre. There are plenty of worthwhile kills that didn’t even make the cut, as these seven deaths represent some of the most gruesome, shocking deaths in the history of sci-fi movies.
Kane — Alien (1979) One of the more iconic deaths in the history of science fiction, Kane’s death in Alien completely defines what the franchise will become, and is also just horrific in its own right. The genius conceit of Alien is that it’s a horror movie with sci-fi trappings, and that never becomes more apparent than the moment when it seems like Kane is going to be alright, and then you discover that he definitely won’t be.
5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in November 5 best sci-fi movies from the past 5 years you should watch right now Watching the xenomorph burst out of his chest, a newborn killing its host as it leaves, is never something that gets old throughout the rest of the Alien franchise. But it’s never more relentlessly horrifying than it is in this first, petrifying sequence.
Everyone — Under the Skin (2014) A small-scale sci-fi movie about an alien who looks like Scarlett Johansson, Under the Skin toes the line between grounded realism and surrealism. The movie essentially plays out as a series of vignettes as Johansson’s menacing alien drives around picking up men and then basically sucking the muscle out from them, leaving only the skin behind.
It’s this uniquely horrific notion that makes Under the Skin ‘s kills feel so visceral. In the long history of science fiction kills, we’ve never really seen anything quite like it before or since.
Emil Antonowsky — RoboCop (1987) There’s plenty of gruesome stuff in one of Paul Verhoeven’s best American movies , but perhaps nothing is more viscerally upsetting than the death of villain Emil Antonowsky, who winds up driving into a pit of toxic waste near the film’s climax. Some directors may have left what happens to Antonowsky up to the imagination, but not Verhoeven.
Instead, we watch as his rapidly deteriorating body emerges from the acid and he attempts to escape. It’s some of the more horrific imagery in a movie that is not afraid of showing off fairly disturbing stuff, and it’s a truly gruesome end for this villainous character.
Vance Norris — The Thing (1982) The premise of The Thing is plenty disturbing all on its own, but John Carpenter’s dedication to smart practical effects only brings the terror up a level. There are plenty of gruesome moments in The Thing , including times when you catch the alien as it transforms into the likeness of one creature or another.
Perhaps the most upsetting moment, though, comes when the team tries to perform CPR on Vance Norris, who has seemingly suffered a heart attack. They discover he’s been taken over by the alien when a hole opens up in his chest as they attempt to use the paddles and a huge set of teeth bites off the doctor’s arms. It’s a totally practical effect and one that is still deeply upsetting to this day.
Seth Brundle — The Fly (1986) David Cronenberg ‘s fascination with the grossest corners of the human body is both repulsive and somehow admirable, and The Fly is among the grosser things he’s ever made. The film tells the story of a scientist who inadvertently fuses with a fly, and begins to resemble the insect more and more as time passes.
As he loses his humanity, Seth Brundle eventually inadvertently fuses with a teleporter machine, becoming an even greater monstrosity before he is mercifully killed in the final moments of his life. Seth’s transformation is grisly, and his actual death is somehow even worse.
Ekaterina Golovkina — Life (2017) Life may not be the kind of sci-fi classic that many of the movies on this list are, but it features several genuinely gnarly kills. The movie follows a group of astronauts who discover life on Mars, and then learn exactly how hostile that life is to humanity.
The movie’s grisliest kill comes when that life form is outside the ship and punctures an astronaut’s coolant tank, forcing her to drown inside her suit. It’s deeply upsetting, in part because it takes a couple of minutes for the whole ordeal to fully play out.
Al Dillon — Predator (1987) Picking a kill from the Predator franchise is like attempting to separate salt and sugar — there are a lot of gruesome kills, and that’s part of the point. Even so, Al Dillon’s death in the very first movie still stands out, partially because it’s a massive comeuppance for dragging the entire team out there to begin with.
Al loses his arm and is then eviscerated by the Predator’s knife, and even the ultra-muscular Carl Weathers is powerless to do anything except scream, warning his team that their lives are in danger with his dying breaths.
Editors' Recommendations 7 best sci-fi movie actors 3 sci-fi movies on Tubi you need to watch in November The best sci-fi movies on Max right now 7 coolest sci-fi future dystopias, ranked 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in October Entertainment Amazon Freevee is a service you can watch even without an Amazon Prime subscription. It’s totally free but with ads between movies and TV show episodes. That’s a small price to pay for being able to watch so much great content.
Sci-fi is the type of genre that often touches on other genres, like drama, comedy, action, and psychological horror. You can check out the best sci-fi movies on Amazon Prime Video. But the selection of content on Amazon Freevee, including sci-fi movies, is worth exploring, too. If sci-fi is what you’re in the mood for right now, we have put together this list of 3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in October. You might never even have heard of these films before, but you’ll find them intriguing, entertaining, and thought-provoking.
Triangle Triangle - Trailer Entertainment Tubi is one of the most loaded streaming services, with over 50,000 movies and television shows. As a FAST service, subscribers can sign up for a free account and watch movies with ads. For October, the genre on Tubi to focus on is sci-fi, as Halloween is the perfect time to watch films with thrills and scares.
There are three sci-fi movies you need to watch on Tubi this October. Our selections include a prequel to Alien, which marks the return of Ridley Scott; the introduction of Kurt Russell as the antihero Snake Plissken; and a 1990s sci-fi action film starring Sylvester Stallone.
Prometheus (2012) Entertainment Since we recently went over the list of all of the upcoming movies in 2023 and 2024, we decided that it would also be a good idea to breakdown the info by genre. That's why we're launching this roundup of all of the upcoming sci-fi movies slated for 2023 and 2024. Compared to the master list, this one is much shorter and there are a lot fewer options. Although, strangely enough, there are two different Godzilla movies: Godzilla Minus One, which is coming straight from Japan later this year, and the American-produced sequel Godzilla x Kong: The New Empire, which is coming in April 2024 if the release date sticks.
In the interest of keeping things simple, this list only features movies that are getting a theatrical release. However, some of these are films that were produced by streaming companies that are planning on giving them a theatrical run ahead of their streaming debut. Netflix's Rebel Moon will be added to this list at a later date, since the streamer hasn't yet announced when it will be in theaters. Another thing to keep in mind is that this list is subject to change. The writers strike may be over, but SAG-AFTRA remains on the picket lines, and many of the big 2024 films can't be completed until the actors come back to work. At the moment, the actors can't even promote their current projects. That's why, for example, Dune: Part Two got pushed to March 2024. Given the current state of Hollywood, it may not be the last sci-fi film to get delayed. But for now, as things stand, these are all of the upcoming sci-fi movies in 2023 and 2024.
Sci-fi movies in 2023 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
