Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked By Joe Allen Close he Hunger Games has remained a surprisingly powerful force in modern pop culture despite the fact that until just recently, there hadn’t been a new movie in the franchise in almost a decade. Thanks to a few great slogans (“I volunteer as tribute,” “May the odds be ever in your favor,” etc.) and a compelling premise, the series still lives on in the imaginations of many people who loved the books and movies when they were initially a phenomenon.
10. Beetee Latier 9. Cinna 8. Rue 7. Plutarch Heavensbee 6. Joanna Mason 5. Haymitch Abernathy 4. Finnick Odair 3. Peeta Mellark 2. Coriolanus Snow 1. Katniss Everdeen With a new entry, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes , now in theaters, the franchise is now back in the zeitgeist. In addition, a recent surge in viewing on streaming platforms like Netflix and now Peacock makes this an ideal time to look back at The Hunger Games and remember the indelible characters that made this franchise so fascinating and moving.
10. Beetee Latier Image used with permission by copyright holder Every franchise needs a tech expert, but not every tech expert has the kinds of quirks that make Beetee so instantly lovable. Beetee’s plan is crucial to the end of Catching Fire , and it’s in that book that we best understand how he thinks and why he’s so opposed to the Capitol.
5 best death game movies you should watch right now The best sci-fi movies on Max right now 5 best sci-fi movies from the past 5 years you should watch right now Jeffrey Wright’s performance as Beetee only heightens many of the compelling things about Beetee in the books, turning him into someone who is both deeply awkward and a genius.
9. Cinna Image used with permission by copyright holder So much of Katniss’s initial success can be chalked up to Cinna, a brilliant stylist who knows how to sell both Katniss and Peeta to the citizens of the Capitol. Cinna’s acts of defiance and his quiet alliance with the rebels ultimately get him killed, but it’s clear that it’s a sacrifice he’s more than willing to make.
Even before Haymitch, Cinna believed in Katniss, and it was Cinna’s belief in her that ultimately drove her to become the symbol of the rebellion that she ultimately was.
8. Rue Image used with permission by copyright holder Both Katniss’ and the viewers first palpable sense of just how cruel the Hunger Games are comes when Rue dies. Katniss, who befriends her in the arena, is both mournful and furious that such an innocent, small, beautiful person has died for the entertainment of a bunch of people she’s never met.
Rue’s innocence is so key to her appeal as a character, and her death is also one of our first tastes of exactly how rebellious Katniss can be. She decorates Rue’s grave, forcing everyone watching to remember that this child who has died is real and deserves to be honored.
7. Plutarch Heavensbee Image used with permission by copyright holder The head gamemaker who changes teams, Plutarch Heavensbee believes in the rebellion and understands how to sell it to the masses. Plutarch may not have made this list if it weren’t for the speech he delivers near the end of Mockingjay , in which he acknowledges that all they’ve been fighting for may eventually be in vain.
It’s a reminder that revolutions are important, even if their impacts don’t last forever. It’s also a signal that Plutarch, as smart as he is, is distanced from the kinds of traumas that many of the other characters in this story experience.
6. Joanna Mason Image used with permission by copyright holder Joanna is angry, and that’s what makes her so memorable. She exists as a version of Katniss who has already lost everything. Everyone she cared about is dead, and so all she can do is scream at the world and then try to numb the pain.
Jena Malone delivers an incredible performance in this role, especially in Catching Fire.
 She also has an iconic scene in which she completely strips in an elevator with Katniss, Peeta, and Haymitch. It’s the best character introduction of the entire series, and an obvious signal that Joanna is not like the rest of the victors Katniss and Peeta will meet.
5. Haymitch Abernathy Image used with permission by copyright holder Katniss and Peeta’s mentor is a jaded, cynical man who finds himself thawed by his twin tributes. Of all the characters that Katniss meets over the course of her journey, Haymitch is the one she is most like. He’s used to drinking himself into a stupor as his tributes die every year at the games, and Peeta and Katniss spend much of their initial time with him trying to prove that they’re different.
Haymitch may not always have the words to express it, but he cares deeply about both Katniss and Peeta, and becomes close to a father figure for both of them over the course of this story.
4. Finnick Odair Image used with permission by copyright holder Like so many of the characters we meet in this series, Finnick presents as one thing and is actually something else entirely. He seems like a charming, sleazy pretty boy who has his way with every woman he meets, when he’s actually a caring, devoted partner who is also a puppet of his country.
Finnick’s journey doesn’t end well, but he’s one of the most instantly charming characters we meet in this franchise, and he turns out to be an intensely loyal friend. There’s a reason fans have always been in love with him.
3. Peeta Mellark Image used with permission by copyright holder The brilliance of Peeta Mellark is that, like Katniss, he goes through severe trauma. He is brainwashed, forced to fight through two Hunger Games, and holds only a fragile grasp on his own humanity as a result. Even so, Peeta is good. He’s kind and warm and decent, and he’s a reminder that people are possible of being all of those things.
Peeta is not a fighter or a survivor, at least not the way that most of the other victors are. Instead, he’s something better. He’s a reminder of all the things that you survive for. He’s a reminder that the world can be good.
2. Coriolanus Snow Image used with permission by copyright holder A morally repugnant man who nevertheless believed he was good, Coriolanus Snow is fascinating in part because he seems to have genuine respect for Katniss. He is aware of the position he’s in, and of the inhumanity of the Hunger Games, but he believes that all of this is worth it for the order that it provides.
He has a code, and although it is not one that the average person would share, it helps us to understand exactly what lurks inside his sinister heart.
1. Katniss Everdeen Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s often the case that the main character of a story like this is not the most interesting one, but not here. Katniss Everdeen is the beating heart of this series. She’s a morally gray, distrustful figure who becomes a symbol of rebellion even though she’s not sure she believes in it herself. She’s deeply traumatized by her experiences in the Hunger Games, and often acts out of love or spite instead of virtue.
Thanks to a stellar performance from Jennifer Lawrence, many of Katniss’s messiest qualities made it to the big screen, and created an action hero worth celebrating not because she’s noble, but because she’s complicated.
The first four Hunger Games movies are streaming on Peacock.
The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes is now in theaters.
Editors' Recommendations The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes’ ending, explained 7 best sci-fi movie actors Every Halloween movie, ranked from worst to best 10 best Martin Scorsese movies, ranked The 10 best movies on Tubi right now (October 2023) Sci-Fi Entertainment Major League Baseball may bill itself as "America's pastime," but sports fans know that it was surpassed in popularity by NFL football decades ago. Football can be a brutal competition, but it has captured the hearts of sports enthusiasts across the nation. That's why football movies have been a part of cinema for a very long time.
When picking the best football movies ever, we decided to focus on the films where football is a central part of the narrative. Movies like Jerry Maguire, which features football as a background element, didn't make the cut. And if you already love sports movies, then you won't be too shocked by the choices we made. These are the five best football movies ever.
5. Friday Night Lights (2004) Entertainment Sci-fi dystopias are a dime a dozen, but ones that feel truly unique or distinct are much more rare. A great sci-fi movie creates its own version of reality, even as the world in which its story is set also comments on the realities of our world.
Each movie on this list features a carefully crafted world that feels entirely real to the viewer, in spite of how miserable all the characters in the movie might be. These are carefully crafted worlds, which only helps them resonate more fully with the one we actually live in.
7. Total Recall (1990) TOTAL RECALL - Official Trailer Entertainment Amazon Freevee is a service you can watch even without an Amazon Prime subscription. It’s totally free but with ads between movies and TV show episodes. That’s a small price to pay for being able to watch so much great content.
Sci-fi is the type of genre that often touches on other genres, like drama, comedy, action, and psychological horror. You can check out the best sci-fi movies on Amazon Prime Video. But the selection of content on Amazon Freevee, including sci-fi movies, is worth exploring, too. If sci-fi is what you’re in the mood for right now, we have put together this list of 3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in October. You might never even have heard of these films before, but you’ll find them intriguing, entertaining, and thought-provoking.
Triangle Triangle - Trailer Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
