Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides 3 Netflix comedies like Bill Burr’s Old Dads you should watch right now By Joe Allen Close Netflix has always been good at churning out solid, funny comedies for every conceivable demographic. With Old Dads , Bill Burr’s new comedy about three men in middle age who slowly discover that they are out of step with the world around them, Netflix has made a new classic for anyone who likes sharp comedy about the way the world is changing.
The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected) (2017) The Mitchells vs. the Machines (2021) Me Time (2022) If you’ve already watched Old Dads , there are several other Netflix comedies that may scratch that same itch. Here are three Netflix comedies like Old Dads that you should definitely check out.
The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected) (2017) Although it has more of a world-weary edge than Old Dads , The Meyerowitz Stories tells the interlocking tales of three siblings as they deal with their father’s declining health.
5 great comedies from the past 5 years you should watch right now 5 movies like Five Nights at Freddy’s you should watch right now Bodies is one of Netflix’s most popular shows right now. Here’s why you should watch it Featuring outstanding performances from Ben Stiller and Adam Sandler, the movie has enough outright comedy about fatherhood and growing old to get you laughing, but it’s also a fairly touching movie about what it means to be a sibling when all of you have left the nest. Noah Baumbach is famous for writing sharp, incisive scripts that are also deeply funny, and The Meyerowitz Stories delivers exactly that.
The Mitchells vs. the Machines (2021) An animated story that follows a family of four who find that they are humanity’s last hope in the face of an alien invasion, The Mitchells vs. the Machines is really a comedy about a father and a daughter who need to find a way to reconnect.
The movie features plenty of jokes about the disconnect between generations, but it takes those ideas seriously and is empathetic with both the father and the daughter in regard to the coldness that has grown between them.
The Mitchells vs. the Machines is a sharply edited action comedy with smart animation, but it’s also a smart movie about the ways time can pass you by.
Me Time (2022) A great comedy about dudes being bros, Me Time stars Mark Wahlberg and Kevin Hart as two best friends who have more recently grown apart from one another. Hart plays a stay-at-home dad who finds himself with some free time, so he decides to join Wahlberg’s character for an all-out rager. Filled with the kind of debauchery that you see less and less of in modern comedy Me Time proves that Wahlberg and Hart have great chemistry with one another. The movie also takes just enough time to ensure that we take its central friendship seriously, only to interrupt it at regular intervals with the kind of shenanigans you might expect from a great comedy.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 5 movies like Netflix’s The Killer you should watch right now 5 shows like Netflix’s Elite you should watch Creature is Netflix’s most underrated horror series right now. Here’s why you should watch it His House is the scariest movie on Netflix right now. Here’s why you should watch it Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment October tends to be the best time of the year to revisit horror movies, and Netflix is no exception. This month, the streamer has added director Tate Taylor's 2019 horror flick, Ma, which has already become one of the top films on the most popular movies on Netflix.
Ma is not a typical horror story, and the lead character, played by Octavia Spencer, is not some random slasher villain. There's a method to Ma's madness, and it makes the film one of the most unique horror movies in years. But if you need more convincing, here are three reasons why you should watch Ma on Netflix.
Octavia Spencer's terrifying performance Entertainment This season has been big for the Kelce brothers in the NFL. Younger brother Travis Kelce is apparently dating Taylor Swift, while his older brother, Jason Kelce, was the subject of the hit Prime Video original documentary, Kelce, which has topped the movie charts on Amazon's streaming page. Kelce presents an intimate look at Jason's career in the NFL, and his decision as to whether he can keep playing in the league. That struck a chord in viewers, and it's currently one of the most popular documentaries on Prime Video.
If you liked Kelce, then there are three additional sports documentaries that you should check out. Our picks take a deep dive into the NBA, two of the greatest boxers of all time, and two of the best female tennis players to ever step foot on a court.
The Last Dance (2020) Entertainment Netflix premiered the four-episode documentary series Beckham last week, and as is evident from the title, it's all about David Beckham, one of the most famous players in the history of football (or soccer, as we call it in America). Given Beckham's status as an international sports icon, it should be no surprise that Beckham has landed on top of the list of the 10 most popular shows on Netflix right now.
If you know nothing about sports or don't care about soccer, then you may be asking: "Why I should watch Beckham?" The most obvious answer is that this is both a sports documentary and an examination of what it's like to be such a huge celebrity. Director Fisher Stevens also managed to get hours of interviews with both David Beckham and his wife, Victoria Beckham, and they share their personal stories both together and separately. But if you need more convincing, here are three reasons why you should watch Beckham on Netflix.
It's a portrait of a superstar as a young man Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
