Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 5 Reese Witherspoon movies you should watch in November By Joe Allen Close Over the past 25 years, Reese Witherspoon has become one of the great movie stars of her generation. Since first emerging on the scene in a series of comedies, Witherspoon has definitively proven that she can be funny and dramatic in equal measure, and she’s created a number of indelible roles over the course of her decades of stardom.
Walk the Line (2005) Election (1999) Legally Blonde (2001) Wild (2014) Pleasantville (1998) Few actresses are more versatile or charming than she continues to be to this day, and these are the five movies you should start with if you’re looking to catch her best work.
Walk the Line (2005) The movie that Witherspoon won her Oscar for, Walk the Line is really more about Joaquin Phoenix’s Johnny Cash than it is about Witherspoon’s June Carter.
3 movies leaving Peacock in November you have to watch 2023 Feast Week live stream: watch Thanksgiving college basketball for free The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) While Phoenix may get more screen time, though, it’s hard to deny that Witherspoon packs the bigger punch, perfectly playing every scene as the chemistry between the two of them grows.
Walk the Line has been lampooned as a conventional biopic, but there’s real emotion in Witherspoon’s performance, and she also proves that she’s a pretty decent singer.
Election (1999) Perhaps the movie that first proved that Witherspoon was a legit star, Election follows a strange, perverse feud between a successful high school student who is running for class president and the History teacher who wants to make sure that she doesn’t succeed.
Election feels like a remarkably prescient movie about male rage, but it’s also an acidic comedy that’s hugely entertaining from front to back. Alexander Payne has gone on to prove that he’s one of the great directors working today, and Election was the movie that put both him and Witherspoon firmly on the map.
Legally Blonde (2001) Witherspoon’s full-blown movie star role, Legally Blonde was also definitive proof that Witherspoon can play broad comedy. Telling the story of Elle Woods, a recent college graduate who was a sorority queen, and decides to apply to Harvard Law School, the movie is certainly a little ridiculous, but it’s also incredibly satisfying.
What’s more, this is a movie that is entirely carried by Witherspoon. It wouldn’t have worked with any other actress, and it remains one of the biggest hits of Witherspoon’s entire career.
Wild (2014) An adaptation of a memoir of the same name, Wild tells the story of Cheryl Strayed, a woman who finds her life spiraling out of control and decides to halt her downward trajectory by hiking the Pacific Crest Trail, even though she has basically no outdoor experience.
Wild is a movie all about isolation, and Witherspoon carries it off beautifully.
The movie also features an excellent supporting turn from Laura Dern ( Jurassic World Dominion ) as Strayed’s mother.
Wild ‘s depiction of Strayed’s turmoil, and the beauty of its outdoor scenery, make this one of the most compelling movies that Witherspoon has ever made.
Pleasantville (1998) One of Witherspoon’s best early roles, Pleasantville tells the story of two modern teenagers who find themselves transported into a sitcom from the 1950s. Witherspoon and Spider-Man actor Tobey Maguire are excellent as two teenagers who find themselves at turns charmed and disturbed by the way this world is set up.
Pleasantville is a world almost entirely devoid of conflict, and the movie’s ostensible point is that its rose-tinted nostalgia may seem great, but only because it covers up a lot of what makes life wonderful. Its central metaphor may feel a little heavy-handed, but Pleasantville still holds up 25 years later.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) Don’t let these 3 November hidden streaming movie gems fly under your radar 5 best death game movies you should watch right now Entertainment Even though Halloween 2023 is but a memory now, that doesn’t mean the spooky chills and thrills need to end in November. In fact, if you’re looking to keep the horror films going throughout the rest of the year and into 2024, you should look no further than a $7 monthly subscription to Shudder. Owned and operated by AMC Networks, Shudder is home to a mighty trove of horror films and shows from all eras, on top of its own original content.
There are literally thousands of titles to sift through on Shudder, which is why we’ve put together this list of the latest and greatest content you’ll be able to enjoy. We do our best to highlight both new and exciting releases, as well as fan favorites and genre classics. So without further ado, here are all the best movies and shows on Shudder for the end of fall.
Entertainment Amazon Prime Video has so much content to watch that’s included with your standard Amazon Prime subscription. From comedies to dramas, Amazon originals, classic network shows, blockbuster movies, and more, the options are endless.
If you’re looking for something that leans more towards the dramatic side, there are three dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November. One is a gritty DC Comics superhero flick, one is a Tom Cruise classic, and the third is one of the most iconic films ever made.
The Batman (2022) THE BATMAN – Main Trailer Entertainment The prices of many streaming services are getting out of hand. Every major streaming service, from Netflix to Disney+, has seemingly increased monthly rates over the last year. If you want to access thousands of movies and TV shows for free, then sign up for Tubi, an ad-supported streaming service. Tubi is considered a FAST streaming service, meaning it's free to sign up and use. The only catch is that ads will run sparingly during your program.
With over 50,000 movies and TV shows, Tubi can keep you entertained for a long time. To help you find something great to watch, we curated a list of three TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November: a DC origin story, a Lovecraftian drama, and a British crime thriller.
Gotham (2014-2019) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
