Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Like the hit Netflix series Bodies? Then watch these three shows just like it By Joe Allen Close Thanks to its fairly unconventional premise, there are few shows exactly like Bodies.
 The new Netflix series , which follows four British detectives from different points in history who all find themselves investigating the same crime, is a fairly unique spin on the crime procedural.
Dark True Detective Twin Peaks As a result, finding shows that feel exactly like Bodies can be a bit challenging. Fortunately, we’ve pulled a few options together that should give you some of the same things that you liked so much about Bodies.
Dark This German Netflix series is one of the more twisty, convoluted sci-fi shows on the streamer, but it’s also one of the more rewarding.
Dark is set in a small town after some children go missing, forcing the whole town to reckon with its dark past and secrets that have remained buried for a generation.
The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more 3 underrated shows on Netflix you need to watch in November Like the hit Netflix show All The Light We Cannot See? Then watch these 5 best WWII dramas Dark adds distinctive elements of sci-fi to the stew of its story as well, linking the town in the present town to its past in 1986. It may take a diagram to figure out exactly what’s happening as the series dives further and further down the rabbit hole, but as long as you’ve got some time to do your own research, you’re sure to find Dark exceptionally rewarding.
Dark is streaming on Netflix.
True Detective Although subsequent seasons have been slightly less satisfying, True Detective ‘s first season was a deeply compelling yarn, and one that also used the passage of time to great effect.
Because it split its time between the present, decades after the initial investigation, and the past when the murders at the show’s center were fresh, we get multiple perspectives on how the case unfolds and eventually resolves itself. Although True Detective doesn’t have quite the same scope in time as Bodies , the two shows do share an interest in the way that time itself can influence an investigation.
True Detective is streaming on Max.
Twin Peaks Few series in the history of TV have been more eerie or influential than Twin Peaks.
 The show, which tells the story of an FBI agent who comes to a small Washington town to investigate the murder of a high school girl, was often deeply surreal and unnerving, even if you could never totally get a handle on what was happening.
Bodies is certainly a much more literal show than Twin Peaks , but the latter series explored the darkness behind murder in a way that few other shows have been able to capture. One part soap opera and one part riveting detective drama, Twin Peaks has become the ultimate cult show, and it’s easy to understand why. Its influence even extends to video games, where the recent release of Alan Wake 2 has revived interest in the show , which keeps on appearing in popular culture.
Twin Peaks is streaming on Paramount+.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December Bodies is a big hit for Netflix. Here are 3 more comic books that should be a Netflix show 5 shows like Netflix’s Elite you should watch Bodies is one of Netflix’s most popular shows right now. Here’s why you should watch it Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment Upload has returned on Prime Video for its third season, this time with episodes streaming two at a time each week. The sci-fi comedy-drama tells the story of a young man named Nathan (Robbie Amell), who dies tragically in a car accident. But before the life drains out of him, his consciousness is uploaded to a lavish afterlife community by his obsessive girlfriend, who now holds the purse strings to his happiness.
Whether you've binged your way through previous seasons, or you’re watching season 3, you can quench the need for similar stories with these five shows to watch if you like Upload.
Entertainment The holiday season is closing in on us quickly. Before you know it, you’ll be cleaning up after a big Thanksgiving turkey day and prepping for Christmas or the particular holiday you celebrate. This is also the time many of us slow down, relax, recharge, and spend quality time with the family before shifting back into full gear for the new year. It’s also the perfect time to immerse yourself in a new or returning show.
When it comes to TV shows you need to watch in November, they mostly include shows that are returning with new seasons. Notably, there’s a multi-Emmy-winning series about the Royal Family that is finally coming to an end. There’s also a new show based on a popular 2010 cult classic movie and a long-awaited reality show based on Netflix’s most popular foreign series that features the biggest cast and largest single cash prize ever in the history of the genre.
Invincible season 2 (November 3) Invincible - Season 2 Teaser Trailer | Prime Video Entertainment October is here again, which means another Mike Flanagan-created show has premiered on Netflix. This year marks the fourth in a row that Flanagan has released a new title on the streaming service, following 2020’s The Haunting of Bly Manor, 2021’s Midnight Mass, and 2022’s The Midnight Club. His latest, The Fall of the House of Usher, is a gothic horror drama based on the works of Edgar Allan Poe, which is just another way of saying that it’s the most cynical and nihilistic project Flanagan has ever made.
Visually, tonally, and narratively, the series is alluring and unique, but that doesn’t mean there aren’t other shows that scratch some of the same itches it does. With that in mind, for all the viewers out there who are either about to finish The Fall of the House of Usher or already have, here are five TV shows that offer many of the same pleasures as the spooky Netflix drama.
The Haunting of Hill House (2018) The Haunting of Hill House Season 1 Trailer | Rotten Tomatoes TV Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
