Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 3 underrated 1970s sci-fi TV shows you should watch By Joe Allen Close Even as it was beginning to blow up at the box office, science fiction was still relatively rare on TV in the 1970s. That’s due in part to the budgets simply not being adequate enough to make the shows look convincing.
Blake’s 7 (1978) Space: 1999 (1975) Battlestar Galactica (1978) If you were really looking for it, though, there were some great 1970s sci-fi series that laid the groundwork for everything that would come in the decades that followed. These series helped establish a mold for what sci-fi storytelling could be like on TV, and many shows are still indebted to them today.
Blake’s 7 (1978) A bleak, dystopian series about a group of misfits who are attempting to take on a totalitarian state, Blake’s 7 feels like the cynical, British antidote to Star Wars.
 The series features many of the same tropes as that movie, albeit at a much smaller scale, and it has a dry wit that makes it feel entirely distinct.
3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 3 PBS shows you should watch in November If you like your sci-fi dipped in acid, this is the series for you. It’s got none of the uplift of a traditional sci-fi story, and that’s part of what made it so thoroughly compelling. Few sci-fi stories have dared to be this realistic and bleak, even to this day.
Blake’s 7 c an be streamed on BritBox via Prime Video.
Space: 1999 (1975) In spite of its VERY 1970s name, Space: 1999 takes a much more grounded approach to science fiction. Set on a futuristic moon base that gets jettisoned into outer space, the show ran for two seasons and was hugely influential on what came after it.
Although Space: 1999 is speculative, it’s based more firmly in real science than many of the shows on this list. At its core, it’s really a gripping survival series about a group of people in dire circumstances. Like many sci-fi shows of this era, Space: 1999 was also British. That side of the pond was just much more into sci-fi TV back then.
Space: 1999 is streaming for free on Amazon Freevee.
Battlestar Galactica (1978) You’re likely aware of the seminal sci-fi series that shares its name with this one, as well as the reboot Battlestar Galactica ‘s best episodes , but far fewer people have taken the time to watch this one-season show that was the inspiration for its more successful successor. The premise of this show is exactly the same, following the crew of the last remaining humans as they battle a race of artificial intelligence intent on wiping them out.
The show obviously had a much lower budget than its successor, but Battlestar Galactica was so sharply written and nuanced that it laid the foundation for one of the most important sci-fi series ever made.
Battlestar Galactica can be rented or purchased on Prime Video.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December 7 best sci-fi movie actors 3 sci-fi movies on Peacock you need to watch in November 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Entertainment Last month on Hulu was all about horror. But in November, the new titles on Hulu include three of the best sci-fi movies of the last decade or so. For fans of the genre, this is a special treat that shouldn't be missed.
This month, our picks include Tom Cruise in a film unlike any of his previous blockbusters, as well as a cult classic robots-versus-aliens movie, and the final installment of a cult-classic film trilogy. These are the three sci-fi movies on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Edge of Tomorrow (2014) Entertainment Netflix is still king. Despite the increased competition from rival companies, Netflix remains the gold standard in streaming, with nearly 250 million subscribers. The most popular shows on Netflix include Stranger Things, Wednesday, and Squid Game. These shows dominate pop culture when a new season arrives on Netflix. However, plenty of good shows sneak under the radar and have developed passionate fanbases.
If you're looking for a new show in November, consider watching these three underrated gems on Netflix. Our selections include a cyberpunk crime thriller, a charming Christmas adventure, and a Western drama.
Altered Carbon (2018-2020) Entertainment There's far more focus on Discovery's reality shows than there used to be on Max. That's especially clear when you see that over half of the most popular shows on Max are, shall we say, not living up to the HBO branding that this streaming service used to be measured by. That's why we're throwing the spotlight on three underrated shows on Max that you should check out.
This month, we've chosen a horror series from Spain, a classic HBO drama, and a short-lived drama that really turned up the heat on TNT. These are the three underrated shows on Max that you need to watch in November.
30 Coins (2021-present) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
