Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 5 great Wesley Snipes movies you should watch By Joe Allen Close As one of the more charismatic actors to ever light up the screen, Wesley Snipes built the kind of career that few actors have managed to pull off. The ’90s were undoubtedly his decade of dominance, but his stardom continued well into the 2000s, and he was ultimately able to cement himself as one of the great movie stars of his or any generation.
Blade II (2002) White Men Can’t Jump (1992) Jungle Fever (1991) Major League (1989) Demolition Man (1993) Like any good movie star, Snipes starred in some movies that were pretty bad, but he also starred in plenty of good to great movies. We’ve plucked the best five movies from his career, in case you’re just looking to watch the highlights.
Blade II (2002) The entire Blade trilogy is worth watching, in part because it’s an important reminder of what superhero movies used to be like before Marvel got ahold of everything. Snipes’ version of the character is genuinely mean, but the actor also brings undeniable charisma to the role that only a few other actors have ever brought to the realm of superheroes.
This action war movie is popular on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it 5 best Halloween horror movies on Netflix you should watch This 2017 Tom Cruise thriller is the most popular movie on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it Blade II is also incredibly stylish, thanks to some sharp direction from Guillermo Del Toro.
 The CGI may not hold up, but that’s about the only thing about Blade II that doesn’t.
White Men Can’t Jump (1992) Telling the story of a pair of skilled basketball players who hustle their way around the pickup scene in Los Angeles, White Men Can’t Jump is the ideal pairing of Snipes and Woody Harrelson, a white player who counts on Black players underestimating his skills.
While White Men Can’t Jump is fundamentally a comedy, it’s one that takes on sharp racial questions and also features some truly excellent basketball. It’s one of Snipes’ best performances.
Jungle Fever (1991) Spike Lee has never shied away from complicated stories about race, and Jungle Race may be one of his most nuanced films. Snipes stars as an attorney who begins an affair with his white secretary, only to find that his life totally unravels in the aftermath.
The movie is an incisive look at both racial and sexual politics, and it doesn’t shy away from asking complicated questions about its protagonist and his desires.
Jungle Fever still feels relevant 30 years later, which is what the best of Spike Lee’s films are able to accomplish.
Major League (1989) Snipes is just one part of a broader ensemble here, but Major League gives him a chance to show off his skills as a comedian. The film tells the story of a team that is assembled to lose at the highest levels which starts to win almost in spite of itself.
Major League is deeply silly, but that’s part of the joy of it. Snipes is great as a walk-on player who can’t hit at all but manages to make the team thanks to his impressive speed. Like everything about this movie, his performance is pretty hard to hate.
Demolition Man (1993) Starring Snipes opposite Sylvester Stallone, Demolition Man is a science fiction movie that sees Snipes’ criminal set loose on the streets of Los Angeles in the distant year of 2022. The movie’s vision of the future may not be accurate, but Snipes is utterly riveting as one of the great villains that Stallone faced over the course of his entire career.
This is a movie that allows space for both actors to play, and, in spite of its sci-fi trappings, the most spellbinding spectacle on display is Snipes’ performance.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 5 best sci-fi movies from the past 5 years you should watch right now 5 movies leaving Prime Video in October you have to watch 5 horror movies like The Exorcist: Believer you should watch 5 great Robin Williams movies you should watch right now Entertainment This week, the Netflix original film, Reptile, is serving as a sharp reminder of why Benicio del Toro is one of the best actors of his generation. And since we've already recommended three movies like Reptile, it's time to shift gears and focus on the five Benicio del Toro movies that you should watch.
Considering that del Toro made his big screen debut in Big Top Pee-wee, followed by a bit part in License to Kill, he's really come a long way in the last 35 years. Del Toro had a very small, yet memorable role in The Usual Suspects, and he was vastly underutilized in Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy. But neither of those films is among the films we picked for the five Benicio del Toro movies you should watch. Instead, we focused on the roles that pushed del Toro to a new level as an actor, including the movie that earned him an Oscar just over two decades ago.
Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1999) Entertainment Who is the best actress in Hollywood? If you poll 100 people, names like Meryl Streep, Cate Blanchett, Kate Winslet, Viola Davis, and Frances McDormand will be brought up. However, the most versatile actress in Hollywood is arguably Emily Blunt. The English actress does it all, from summer action movies and rom-coms to dramas and horror. How many actresses could play Mary Poppins, Kitty Oppenheimer, Emily Charlton, and Rita Vrataski? Not many! Blunt will next appear in October's Pain Hustlers, the upcoming drama that will stream on Netflix as part of its 2023 movie slate. Before Pain Hustlers, here are five great Emily Blunt movies you should watch, including a crime drama from Taylor Sheridan and one of the best mainstream horrors of the last decade.
The Devil Wears Prada (2006) Entertainment For decades, Sylvester Stallone has been an action icon in Hollywood. However, at 77 years old, even Stallone has to slow down sometime. Later this month, The Expendables 4 will mark Stallone's final appearance in the franchise, and possibly his last action movie as well. Regardless of whether it is or isn't Stallone's swan song, no one can dispute his contributions to cinema. He wrote and starred in Rocky, which won Best Picture at the 1976 Oscars and spawned a movie franchise that continues to this day with Creed III. Stallone also headlined the Rambo franchise and showed off his dramatic chops in films like Cop Land. He even starred in comedies like Oscar, Tango & Cash, and the relentlessly silly Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot.
Since Stallone may finally be done with action, we've decided to focus on those types of films when deciding the five Sylvester Stallone movies you should watch in September. He starred in some really great action movies, and that's one of the reasons why his cinematic legend will endure.
First Blood (1982) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
