Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Meta Quest 3 accessories to make your VR experience even better By Jon Martindale Close The Meta Quest 3 is an exciting next-generation VR headset with some impressive features. While there are a couple of different versions with more or less storage, you can also augment your Quest 3 with a range of accessories.
 From replacement faceplates, to a better headband, extra batteries, and charging stations, here are the best Quest 3 accessories you can use to improve your VR gaming experience.
You can buy accessories now, but make sure to read our Meta Quest 3 review first to see if the headset is worth it.
More More Meta / Meta Meta Quest 3 Elite Strap A better headstrap for a better fit Adjustable to fit more head sizes Reduces facial pressure Compatible with other official Quest 3 accessories Expensive Why you should buy this : It makes the Quest 3 more comfortable for a wider range of head sizes.
Who it's for : Gamers with much larger, or smaller headset than average.
Why we picked the Meta Quest 3 Elite Strap : The Quest 3 Elite Strap is a useful upgrade over the base headset if you have a particularly large or small head, or if you plan to share your headset among friends and family. The quick-adjust dial on the back of the strap makes it easy to change the fit of the Quest 3, allowing for a precise fit to avoid shifting during use.
This is a first-party Meta accessory for the Quest 3, so it's fully compatible with other Meta accessories, like the docking station.
More Meta / Meta Meta Quest Touch Pro Controllers Best controller upgrade Extra sensors improve tracking Lightweight Works with Pro and Quest 3 headsets Expensive Why you should buy this : It improves controller tracking.
Who it's for : Those who want a more Pro experience, without the high price tag.
Why we picked the Meta Quest Touch Pro Controllers : The Meta Quest Pro has some awesome features, and one of them is its excellent controllers with their internal tracking adding some impressive reliability to controller tracking. Bringing that additional sensitivity to the Meta Quest 3 is an upgrade over the standard controllers. While those are excellent, with TruTouch haptics, they don't have the internal tracking of the Touch Pro controllers.
Fortunately then, the Quest 3 supports Touch Pro Controllers. Upgrade to them if you want a more capable VR controller.
Best Meta Quest 3 deals: Get Asgard Wrath 2 for free and more New deal gets you two free games when you buy a Meta Quest 2 Meta / Meta Meta Quest 3 carry case Keep your Quest 3 safe on the road Compact carry case design Fits headset and controllers Internal padding Not as strong as hard shell cases Why you should buy this : It'll keep your Quest 3 safe while you carry it around.
Who it's for : VR gamers who like to take their Quest 3 with them on the road.
Why we picked the Meta Quest 3 Carrying Case : If you plan to take your Quest 3 from home to work, or from college to home, or between any two places beyond the bounds of your home, you want a carry case. It will ensure that your Quest 3 doesn't pickup any dirt or damage while in transit, and it keeps the controller and headset neat and tidy so you don't lose anything.
This case is compact and snuggly fits the headset and controllers, and comes with a little carry strap for convenient transport.
Meta / Meta Meta Quest 3 Charging Dock Convenient storage and recharging in one Charges and stores in one Keeps your VR setup entirely wireless Helps prevent controller or headset damage Expensive Why you should buy this : It charges your Quest 3 in the most convenient way.
Who it's for : VR gamers who want to keep their Quest 3 safe while it charges.
Why we picked the Meta Quest 3 charging dock : Charging a virtual reality headset can be a pain in the neck, and who wants wires running across the floor when you can use a charging station instead? This charging dock for the Quest 3 charges the headset and controllers at the same time, all while lifting them up off the floor, helping to keep them safe while you charge them.
This setup also gets you in and out of VR as quick as possible, making it more convenient and fun to play.
More Quest 3 silicon face plate Wipe clean faceplates improve comfort and hygiene A soft and comfortable silicon fit Wipe clean surface improves hygiene Compatible with carry case and charging dock Expensive for what it is Why you should buy this : It makes your faceplate wipeable and more spongy.
Who it's for : Sweaty gamers or those often swapping between friends.
Why we picked the Meta Quest 3 silicon faceplate : If you plan to play active games in your Quest 3, then a wipe-clean faceplate makes a big difference. You needn't fear the sweat build up, as it can just be wiped clean when you're done. This is extra important if you want to run a VR night with friends and family, as a headset in a hot room can get pretty gnarly with repeat use.
It's a bit expensive for what it is, but for those who can benefit from something like this, it's well worth the expense.
Elfesoul / Amazon Elfesoul USB-C 3.2 Gen 2 cable Best Oculus Link cable alternative USB 3.2 Gen 2x2 speed 10ft length Braided protective layer Not official Why you should buy this : It's a much cheaper way to enjoy the Oculus Link connection.
Who it's for : PC gamers who want to use their Quest 3 with PCVR games.
Why we picked the Elfesoul USB-C Gen 2x2 : You can use any high-quality USB-C cable to connect your Quest 3 to your PC for Quest Link PCVR gameplay, or the official one. The problem is that that cable is $70, and a great USB-C cable like this one isn't even $20. Just make sure that it's at least USB-C 3.2 Gen 2x2 or better (Thunderbolt 4, USB4, etc), so that there's enough bandwidth for the Quest 3 connection.
You also want to make sure it's long enough to move around, too. Don't go buying a 1m long cable if you want to play anything outside of seated experiences.
This is just the beginning of Quest 3 accessories, too. Third-parties are just itching to launch a whole host of unofficial accessories. Look out for lots of new accessories for the Quest 3 coming soon.
Editors' Recommendations VR headset Black Friday deals: Save on Meta Quest 2 and more Reminder: Meta Quest Pro’s permanent $500 price cut is in effect Buy a Meta (Oculus) Quest 2 and get a free $25 Amazon gift card Best Products Facebook Virtual Reality Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
