Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Counter-Strike 2 performance guide: best settings, fps boost and more By Jon Martindale Close Counter-Strike 2 was one of the most long-awaited PC game launches of the year, with over a decade since the release of its predecessor. It’s the fifth entry in the Counter-Strike series, and a major one at that, with a huge upgrade to the game’s visuals, and some of its longstanding mechanics.
The best settings for Counter-Strike 2 Counter-Strike 2 system requirements Counter-Strike 2 benchmarks tested Popular maps are back with a brand new look and feel, and there are new practical elements to consider too, like smoke physics. But the big and most obvious change is the port the the Source 2 engine, which is much better looking and more demanding for it. That’s why playing around with the Counter-Strike 2 settings to improve your frames per second (fps) is well worth it. Here’s what you need to know to get the best Counter-Strike 2 performance.
These settings give a great blend of looks and performance.
Jon Martindale / DigitalTrends The best settings for Counter-Strike 2 Counter-Strike 2 has a lot of settings you can play with to make the game look, feel, and run exactly how you like. Although many of them will only have a very slight effect on in-game performance, combined, they can all add up to some notable improvements (or detriments) to your performance, depending on your choices. If you’re looking to maximize your performance to give you a slight competitive advantage — or just to get the game running more smoothly — here are some of the most important settings you can tweak.
Since Counter-Strike 2 is a competitive game, we’ll be focusing our settings choices on improving performance to minimize input lag and give the player the greatest competitive advantage possible. Many of these have carried over from CS:GO , and like that game, we recommend setting most of the settings to “Low.” However, there are some settings that actually give you a gameplay advantage from turning them up, so we need to highlight those.
Resolution: Use your monitor’s native resolution (likely 1920 x 1080, or 2560 x 1440) Refresh rate: Set to your monitor’s maximum Display Mode: Fullscreen Laptop Power Savings: Disabled Boost Player Contrast: Enabled Wait For Vertical Sync: Disabled Current Video Values Preset: Custom Multisampling Anti-Aliasing Mode: 4X Global Shadow Quality: High Model / Texture Quality: Medium Texture Filtering Mode: Bilinear Shader Detail: Low Particle Detail: Low Ambient Occlusion: High High Dynamic Range: Performance Fidelity FX Super Resolution: Ultra Quality NVIDIA Reflex Low Latency: Enabled (if you have an Nvidia GPU) For resolution, set it to your monitor’s native resolution to avoid blurring. That’s likely to be 1080p or 1440p. If you’re playing on a 4K monitor, you might want to opt for a lower resolution to improve performance, but that will mean a slightly blurry picture, largely defeating the point of gaming on a 4K display.
Baldur’s Gate 3 PC performance tested: best settings, DLSS, slow HDD mode, and more Valorant performance guide: best settings, fps boost, and more F1 2022 performance guide: Best settings for high frame rate We’ve turned off vertical sync here, since it can add a small amount of input lag, though you’ll want to enable FreeSync or G-Sync if you have it, to reduce the chance of screen tearing in more demanding maps.
These aliased edges jump right out at me and are really distracting. I like a little AA in my games.
Jon Martindale / DigitalTrends Not all players care about aliased edges, but I do. To my eye, it’s one of the most obvious visual defects of running a game at low settings and I’m not a fan. It’s distracting and immersion-breaking, so I like to play games with at least 2x or 4x anti-aliasing to smooth out those edges. Turning it off does give you a slight performance bump, so decide whether it’s worth it for you.
Global shadow quality does affect performance quite a lot, so you can turn it right down if you want. However, we found that at High or Very High, you can see enemy shadows much more clearly, so it’s worth keeping it up. For the same reason, you want Ambient Occlusion set to at least High as well, as that improves how readily you can see enemy shadows which can give you a slight advantage in spotting them. I set model/texture quality to medium, as I felt it gave a slight improvement to the clarity of enemies at a distance. You might be happier setting it to low, but the performance difference between the two options is negligible.
For high dynamic range, if you have a high-end monitor with HDR support, turning it to Quality can make the game look a lot better, but it’s very dependent on the display you’re playing on. Set to Performance for the best performance.
CS: GO 2 employs much more advanced particle and smoke physics.
Jon Martindale / DigitalTrends You can boost frame rates by enabling FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) , but some people find they can see the sharpening artifacts it creates. I don’t, so I’m happy to have it enabled to increase frame rates, but if you’d rather turn if off, the game plays perfectly fine without it. There are some reports of increased input latency when using it, but again, that’s not something I noticed. Play around with it and see if the added FPS is worth it to you.
If you have an Nvidia graphics card , enabling Nvidia Reflex Low Latency is a good idea as it can reduce input lag. You may need to enable this in your Nvidia Control Panel. For more tips on optimizing Nvidia GPUs, check out our guide to Nvidia Control Panel settings.
Counter-Strike 2 system requirements Valve published some basic minimum system requirements for Counter-Strike 2 with its beta launch, and though they are more demanding than the requirements for its predecessor, they are still very lightweight for a 2023 game.
Processor: Intel Core i7 750 or higher Memory: 8GB Graphics: Any graphics card with 1GB or more of VRAM, support for DirectX 11 and Shader Model 5.0 Storage: 85GB Operating system: Windows 10 The processor and graphics requirements here are some of the lightest you’ll find in modern gaming. The Intel Core i7 750 was released in 2009, and the first compatible graphics cards were released over 10 years ago. If you have any kind of gaming PC released in the past decade, or any kind of PC at all from the past five years, you shouldn’t have any trouble getting this game running.
However, if you’re reading this guide then you aren’t looking to play the game on barebones hardware, so what do you need to actually run the game well? In our testing, we saw Counter-Strike 2 utilize as many as 12 CPU threads , so you want a processor with at least six cores. You can also increase your frames per second a lot with a powerful graphics card , even when using the best Counter-Strike 2 settings as outlined above. You don’t need an RTX 4090 to make the most of this game, but you’ll get excellent performance with one of the best graphics cards from the top manufacturers.
For the absolute best performance with high frame rates, a powerful CPU is just as important. The best CPU for any game at the moment is the AMD Ryzen 7 7800X3D , although the Intel Core i9-13900K is also a great alternative. They’re more than you’ll need for even top performance in a game like this, but if you want the best of the best, they’re the tools for the job.
Counter-Strike 2 benchmarks tested Despite the big visual improvements with Counter-Strike 2, Valve has done an excellent job of optimizing it for lower-powered PCs. However, to see what kind of performance you can expect when adjusting settings, we benchmarked it on a powerful PC on the classic Dust II map, with 10 minutes of real gameplay recorded while MSI Afterburner tracked frame rates and frame times.
We used the following test system to check frame rates and settings in Counter-Strike 2: CPU: AMD Ryzen 7950X3D Motherboard: Asus Crosshair X670E Hero Graphics card: AMD Radeon RX 7900 XTX Memory: 32GB Kingston Fury Renegade 5200MHz We tested Counter-Strike 2 at our chosen settings at 1080p and 1440p, and 1440p with all settings at maximum for anyone who wants to enjoy all of the visual improvements in Counter-Strike 2.
 I recorded frame rate and frame time averages (here’s why frame times are important ).
Average FPS Average frame time 1080p recommended settings 326 3.01ms 1440p recommended settings 313 3.03ms 1440p max settings (FSR disabled) 305 3.18ms As you can see, even with the big upgrades to how good Counter-Strike 2 looks, the settings you choose for powerful PCs like this one don’t matter too much. If you have anything close to as powerful a PC as this, you can set the game to its defaults (or just max everything out) and enjoy a great-looking and great playing CS: GO 2 experience. However, if you’re playing an older or weaker gaming PC , then adjusting settings to maximize performance to help give you a competitive advantage may well be worth it.
Want more tips for improving performance in Counter-Strike 2 ? Check out our guide to PC performance tweaking for a more in-depth discussion of various in-game settings.
Editors' Recommendations Fortnite performance guide: best settings, fps boost, and more Apex Legends performance guide: best settings, fps boost, and more Call of Duty Modern Warfare 2 (2022) PC performance guide: Best settings for high fps The best settings for Overwatch 2: Benchmarks, performance God of War PC performance guide: The best settings for high FPS Computing Battlefield 2042 is one of a few massive AAA shooters releasing this holiday season. It ditches the campaign to focus solely on multiplayer, and it still features the same gigantic, bombastic battles that the Battlefield franchise is known for. To feel the heat of the battlefield as accurately as possible, we rounded up a list of the best Battlefield 2042 settings so you can optimize your gaming PC's performance.
Like previous games in the franchise, Battlefield 2042 is a game built to stress the most recent PC hardware. Our testing revealed how demanding the game is, though it seems to stress older and low-end components more. As long you meet a certain threshold -- particularly a recent six-core CPU and one of the best graphics cards -- you should be able to reach 4K with a few settings tweaks.
Computing Call of Duty Vanguard is here, but before you can dive into Zombies or get to the leveling grind, you'll need to make sure your performance is in check. We took the game out for a spin with a few graphics cards to find the best settings available, and in this guide, we're going to walk you through them.
We tested each setting, each upscaling mode, and a few different resolutions so you can maximize your PC performance. If you're looking for console settings, make sure to check out our guide to the best controller settings for Call of Duty Vanguard. For newer PC players, our list of the best settings won't make you better in multiplayer, but our Call of Duty Vanguard multiplayer guide offers a few helpful pointers.
The best settings for Call of Duty Vanguard Computing The Forza franchise has always been known for its graphical quality, and the most recent release, Forza Horizon 5, is no different. It's a show-stopping game, but to achieve the best frame rate and performance on your PC, you'll need the best settings for Forza Horizon 5.
You don't have to change much to get Forza Horizon 5 performing well, and almost regardless of your settings, the game looks great. We're going to run through the best settings we found through testing, as well as what performance you can expect when you boot up the game.
The best settings for Forza Horizon 5 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
