Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Fortnite performance guide: best settings, fps boost, and more By Jon Martindale Close Fortnite continues to be one of the most popular games in the world, with a strong competitive scene, and like any competitive game, players want every possible advantage they can get. One of the best ways to improve your chances of winning is to tweak the game’s settings, so it runs at higher frame rates, lowering your input lag and helping you to react faster.
The best settings for Fortnite Fortnite system requirements Fortnite benchmarks Fortnite is a slightly more demanding esport than some of its older rivals, but that just means there’s more scope for performance improvements if you select the right settings. Here are the most important performance-enhancing tweaks you can make to Fortnite.
Use these settings for a good blend of performance and clarity.
Jon Martindale / DigitalTrends The best settings for Fortnite We played around with Fortnite’ s settings to find the most optimized Fortnite settings for the best performance and clarity. As this is a competitive game, the focus of tweaking settings is mostly designed to make the game run as fast as possible without making it look so terrible that it’s a distraction. Since there’s some element of personal preference with in-game settings, I’ll also include a few nods to settings that I just can’t do with, or without.
Window mode: Fullscreen Resolution: Set to your monitor’s native resolution, probably 1920 x 1080 or 2560 x 1440 VSync: Off Frame rate limit: Unlimited, or match it to your monitor’s refresh rate Rendering mode: DirectX 12 or Performance Anti-aliasing and super resolution: FXAA Temporal Super Resolution: N/A 3D resolution: 100% View distance: Medium Shadows: Off Global Illumination: Off Textures: Low Effects: Low Post processing: Off Hardware ray tracing: Off Nvidia Reflex Low Latency: On + Boost if you have an Nvidia GPU DLSS: On if you have an Nvidia GPU Running the game at your monitor’s native resolution is the best way to ensure the game performs well and looks good. If you have a 4K monitor, you could play at these lower resolutions for better performance, but the blurriness you’d get from playing outside of native isn’t worth it.
Baldur’s Gate 3 PC performance tested: best settings, DLSS, slow HDD mode, and more Valorant performance guide: best settings, fps boost, and more Call of Duty Modern Warfare 2 (2022) PC performance guide: Best settings for high fps You want VSync off because of its tendency to add input lag, although if you have Freesync or G-Sync on your monitor, using that is a better alternative anyway. Switch the frame rate to unlimited or the same as your monitor’s refresh rate, unless you want to reduce how hard your graphics chip is working. In that case, lower it down to whatever is appropriate.
Set Rendering Mode to DX12 if your graphics card supports it, as if offers the best performance and stability. Only use Performance mode if your PC is particularly old, as it will make the game playable, at an extreme cost to visuals.
You can turn anti-aliasing off for maximum performance, but I really don’t like jaggies, so I prefer it on in some capacity in everything I play; Fortnite included. TAA is an option too, but it’s more demanding.
Jon Martindale / DigitalTrends These settings won’t make the game look amazing, but it still looks good enough to not be a distraction.
I set View distance to Medium because I was tired of spotting the pop-in, but you can switch it to near without much of an effect and it does give a light performance improvement.
Set everything else to off, or low, unless you have an Nvidia graphics card, in which case you definitely want Reflex set to On + Boost , and DLSS set to On if you have it and want additional performance for free.
Fortnite system requirements Fortnite’s system requirements are quite a bit more demanding than older esports games like League of Legends , or Rocket League , but they’re still shallow enough that most PC gamers will have enough performance to at least get the game running.
Minimum system requirements CPU: Intel Core i3-3225 or newer Memory: 8GB Operating system: Windows 10 64-bit The minimum system requirements don’t even specify a graphics chip, so as long as your CPU is young enough to compete with the 11-year-old Intel Core i3, your onboard graphics should be enough to carry an entry-level Fortnite experience.
Recommended system requirements CPU: Intel Core i5 7500U Memory: 8GB Graphics: Nvidia GTX 960, AMD R9 280, or better Operating system: Windows 10 64-bit The recommended system requirements are a higher bar to reach, but nothing most gaming PCs can’t handle. The graphics card recommendations are close to 10 years old, and the CPU was a mid-range laptop chip when it debuted in 2017. Any recent-generation gaming PC can match these kinds of specifications.
Epic Quality system requirements CPU: Intel Core i7-8700, AMD Ryzen 7 3700X, or better Memory: 16GB of RAM or more Graphics: Nvidia GTX 1080, AMD RX 5700 XT, or better VRAM: 4GB Storage: NVMe SSD Operating system: Windows 10 64-bit Like most games, playing Fortnite at Epic Quality settings does mean having a relatively up-to-date system. You still don’t need one of the best graphics cards to match these system requirements, though. Any midrange gaming PC from the past two to three years will easily outpace this.
Fortnite can look very pretty with ray tracing and all the other settings at their maximums.
Jon Martindale / DigitalTrends Fortnite benchmarks Most modern gaming PCs shouldn’t have too much trouble playing Fortnite at even high settings if they want to. Still, to show what kind of difference you can expect on a modern high-end gaming PC from adjusting settings, we recorded a number of benchmarks to see how Fortnite performs at several different settings.
We used the following test system to check frame rates and settings in Fortnite: CPU: AMD Ryzen 7950X3D Motherboard: Asus Crosshair X670E Hero Graphics card: AMD Radeon RX 7900 XTX Memory: 32GB Kingston Fury Renegade 5200MHz We recorded average frame rates at our above recommended settings at both 1080p and 1440p, and with the game completely maxed out at 1440p for those with high-end PCs who want a game that performs well and looks great at the same time.
Note: Since this is a PC with an AMD graphics card, we can’t enable DLSS and FSR is not available.
Average fps Minimum fps 1080p recommended settings 498 305 1440p recommended settings 218 205 1440p max settings, including ray tracing 69 45 With a system like this, settings tweaks in an esports game aren’t typically too dramatic, but we can see here that there’s quite a big difference between even 1440p and 1080p — although near 500 fps average is overkill for all but the most competitive of players. I’d be tempted to play at 1440p with some of the settings turned higher to make the game look prettier, with less jagged edges and richer colors.
As you can see, though, ray tracing along with all the other settings can cause even powerful PCs like this to slow down. It looks great — much more like a AAA game than it has any right to — but it makes the game look much busier, too, with a lot more visual information which is likely to distract from your ability to see and target your enemies.
Want more tips for improving performance in Fortnite ? Check out our guide to PC performance tweaking for a more in-depth discussion of various in-game settings.
Editors' Recommendations Counter-Strike 2 performance guide: best settings, fps boost and more Apex Legends performance guide: best settings, fps boost, and more The best gaming mouse for esports Uncharted Legacy of Thieves PC performance guide: Best settings for high fps F1 2022 performance guide: Best settings for high frame rate Gaming Fortnite PC Gaming Computing Elden Ring is an early hit for 2022, at least on consoles. The game just passed the Mostly Positive mark on Steam after being review bombed on release day for poor performance. The PC port, as is typical of From Software, has some problems. To get the most out of it, we ran a range of Elden Ring benchmarks to find the best settings.
The game still has some performance problems, and it calls for a recent PC. With a few settings optimizations, though, you can get Elden Ring looking how you want while still hitting the frame rate cap.
The best settings for Elden Ring Computing God of War may have come out in 2018, but it's back in 2022 with a vengeance and a high-end PC port in tow. Based on the enhanced PS5 version, God of War on PC promises higher frame rates and resolutions. But to squeeze out the most performance, you need the best settings for God of War on PC.
I tested each setting, upscaling mode, and resolution to find the optimal settings for God of War on PC, and in this guide, I'm going to run you through the performance you can expect. Although there are still some issues with the PC port -- keyboard and mouse controls chief among them -- the performance is solid.
Computing Halo Infinite is officially here, following a surprise announcement during Xbox's 20th-anniversary celebration, where Microsoft dropped the Halo Infinite multiplayer beta. Now that we've had time to test the campaign and multiplayer, we put together a guide on the best settings for Halo Infinite so you can optimize your PC's performance.
The Halo: Master Chief Collection is on PC, but Halo Infinite is the first new game in the franchise to arrive on PC since the original Halo: Combat Evolved. There are a lot of graphics options to dig into, as well as a few critical options you need to tweak for a high frame rate.
The best settings for Halo Infinite Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
