Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How to change startup programs By Jon Martindale Close Startup apps and programs are often convenient if you want to save time when you turn your computer on. However, you might have experienced that when many programs try to start at once, your computer can take a long time to boot up successfully.
How to manage startup apps in Windows 11 How to manage startup apps in Windows 10 How to manage startup apps in macOS How to manage startup apps in Windows 8 How to manage startup apps in Windows 7 Changing your startup programs is a simple way to boost your computer’s load time and get rid of programs you might not necessarily need. There are easy ways to do it regardless of what type of operating system you have. We’ll walk you through the process step by step and help identify and deactivate programs that are bloating your startup.
Difficulty Duration What You Need A PC (Windows or macOS) screenshot/Anita George / Digital Trends How to manage startup apps in Windows 11 Step 1: Select the Start menu button. Then, from the menu that appears, choose Settings.
Step 2: In the Settings menu, choose Apps.
Step 3: On the Apps screen, choose Startup.
Step 4: On the Startup screen, you'll be presented with a list of apps. Each app has a toggle next to it. Select the toggle for a given app to turn on or off its ability to begin running as soon as you log into your Windows 11 PC.
The Startup screen also shows you which of these apps are likely to be the ones that are are slowing down your PC at startup by labeling them as High , Medium , Low , or No impact.
 If you're looking to speed up your PC at startup, you may want to turn off the apps labeled as High impact first.
DigitalTrends How to manage startup apps in Windows 10 Step 1: Launch the Task Manager. You can find it by right-clicking on the taskbar and selecting it from the pop-up list, pressing Ctrl + Alt + Delete , or by searching for it in the Windows search box.
Step 2: If the Task Manager only shows the current programs you have open, get it to reveal more information by selecting More details at the bottom of the window. Doing so opens a larger window with a much longer list of apps and various tabs. Don’t get overwhelmed! Look at the tab options and go to the one that says Startup.
Step 3: The Startup tab shows you all the apps that can automatically start up with Windows. You’ll notice that all active apps say Enabled in the Status Section, while inactive ones are Disabled.
 Look through the list and find the apps that you don’t need or want to launch automatically. The apps displayed will vary depending on your PC, but consider your tasks and what’s essential before making a decision.
Step 4: You probably want OneDrive to open at work, your Nvidia graphics card to launch on a gaming rig, and any anti-malware solution you might have to always start with Windows. When you find an app you don’t need, right-click (or press and hold if on a tablet). Select Disable from the pop-up menu. Alternatively, you can use the Disable button at the bottom of the window.
Step 5: When it comes to picking the apps you want to disable, it’s worth considering the last column in Task Manager, titled Startup impact.
 This column lets you know how much system resources the app requires on startup. If it says None , then you probably don’t need to worry about disabling it. If it says Not measured , then it’s likely a new app (or you have a fresh Windows 10 install), because Windows hasn’t been able to measure its impact yet.
Step 6: Over time, Startup impact can provide useful information on what apps are best to disable. Look for apps that have a High impact , and odd-named apps that don’t have anything listed under Publisher.
 These are prime targets. However, if you aren’t sure what an app does, it’s generally a smart idea to leave it. If you find that you’ve disabled an app that you did need to startup with Windows, simply repeat the above steps and set the app to Enabled.
Step 7: It’s worth noting that Windows 10 users can also change which apps run when their PC boots by selecting Windows key > Settings > Apps > Startup , then making sure that only apps they want are running during startup.
screenshot/Arif Bacchus / Digital Trends How to manage startup apps in macOS Step 1: Go to System preferences , which you can find in your dock as the gear icon. Once there, look for the silhouette icon called Users & groups and select it. You’ll also want to select the Lock to make changes and enter your password.
Step 2: If you have multiple users on your computer, they will appear on the left side of the window. Pick the appropriate user if necessary. It should be noted that some options here are restricted due to administrative privileges, but you should still be able to alter your startup apps without a problem. After you select the correct user, choose the tab near the top of the window that says Login items.
Step 3: In Login items , you will see a list of all apps that open on startup. Check the apps that you don’t want to start right away. Unfortunately, there’s no easy way to see which apps have the most impact on startup time like in Windows, but the list does tell you what kind of software it is, which may help you decide.
Step 4: Below the list of apps, you will find plus and minus signs. Choosing the Minus sign will remove the app that you have selected from the list. You can also add new apps with the Plus sign.
Users can also choose to remove all selected apps at once if you want a clean slate. It should be noted that this method works only on the following versions of macOS: all versions from High Sierra to Monterey.
unknown How to manage startup apps in Windows 8 Step 1: Run Task Manager by pressing the Windows key + R and typing msconfig in the Run box, then select Run.
 Users can also press Ctrl + Alt + Delete , then select Task manager from the menu that appears.
Step 2: Choose the tab labeled Startup.
Step 3: Select the startup program or programs you’d like to disable, then select Disable.
On the other hand, if there are programs you’d like to boot with Windows, you can add them here as well. Right-click the item you want to have run at startup, select Copy.
 Next, simultaneously press the Windows + R keys to open the Run dialogue box, then enter %appdata%.
From the menu that appears, choose Microsoft > Windows > Start menu > Programs > Startup.
 You’ll then want to right-click anywhere in the menu and select Paste.
 You can then restart the computer to save your startup configuration.
unknown How to manage startup apps in Windows 7 Step 1: Select the Windows Start button, and in the Search programs text box, type MSConfig.
 Your System Configuration console will open after this.
Step 2: Select the tab labeled Startup.
 A new window will open up where you can see all your computer programs installed as startup options.
Step 3: Go through this list and check the boxes of all of the apps you want to keep. You will also need to uncheck the boxes for all of the applications you do not wish to keep.
Step 4: Lastly, select Apply and then close the window. Select Restart when the reboot pop-up window appears. You won’t be able to see the changes until you restart your device and they take effect.
Step 5: You use the same steps to put new options on the Windows 7 startup menu as you do with the Windows 8 operating system.
To do this, right-click on the item you wish to add to the Startup menu. A menu pops up and gives you the option to Create shortcut.
 Once you select that, you’ll find the shortcut in the same folder with the original item, so you won’t have to search for it.
Step 6: Next, you’ll have to select the Start button > All programs > Startup.
 Drag the new shortcut you created into the Startup folder. Now, every time you restart your computer, you’ll know that the shortcut is available on startup and you won’t have to manually navigate to it. After you’ve completed these steps, your Startup menu will automatically save and be ready to use when you turn your computer back on.
Editors' Recommendations All the best macOS Sonoma tips and tricks you need to know What does printer spooling mean, and how to fix it on Windows and Mac 7 trackpad gestures for Mac that everyone should know Here’s how to combine PDF files the easy way How to remove a login password on Windows 11 How-To Apple How-To Guides Mac Microsoft Microsoft Windows Software Windows 10 Windows 8 Windows Guides Computing Thanks to the massive success of Apple Silicon, Macs have become increasingly tempting. Plenty of folks are heading back to the Mac for the first time in years, and in doing so, making the dramatic switch from Windows 11 to macOS.
When it comes to these operating systems, though, they're not equal across the board. And in the end, here are the five things that keep me coming back to Windows 11.
Device support Computing Change is a constant in the world of technology, and operating systems are no exception. Windows 11, with its sleek interface and improved features, may have tempted you into an upgrade. Yet, as with any change, there can be a multitude of reasons why you might want to revert to your previous OS or explore alternative options. In this guide, we'll explain how to uninstall Windows 11.
Whether you're facing compatibility issues, prefer the familiarity of an earlier Windows version, or simply wish to explore other possibilities, we've got you covered.
Computing Apple’s latest operating system, macOS Sonoma, has launched, and it brings with it a bunch of great new features for your Mac. But upgrading your Apple computer could lead to problems, and while this won’t happen to everyone, it can be frustrating when issues arise.
Fortunately, there’s help at hand. We’ve put together a list of the most common macOS Sonoma problems and how to fix them. Just follow these tips and they could help you out of a tricky spot. We’ve added links to Apple’s official guidance throughout, so be sure to check them out for more assistance.
macOS Sonoma won’t download Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
