Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How to convert an MP4 to an MP3 By Jon Martindale Close What should you do when you don’t need to watch a video, but instead just need to listen to the audio? In these cases, you want the portability and storage offered in an MP3. We are going to show you how to easily convert an MP4 video file to an MP3.
Convert an MP4 to an MP3 using CloudConvert Alternative: Any Video Converter (Windows and macOS) There are a variety of free file converters you can use directly in your browser or download to your desktop. Read on to learn about our favorites and our simple instructions on how to convert your MP4 files using these free tools.
Difficulty Duration What You Need An MP4 file you want to convert A PC A web browser An online converter (like CloudConvert) A desktop conversion app (like AVC) Convert an MP4 to an MP3 using CloudConvert The CloudConvert homepage is the best place to start. CloudConvert is an intuitive, cloud-based service that provides a stand-alone option that requires little more than an internet connection and your file. It’s free, requires no additional software to run, and supports more than 200 formats — most importantly in our case, MP4 to MP3.
While the resulting audio quality is great, as is the conversion speed, a free account only allows up to 25 free conversions per day. However, CloudConvert should suit your needs if your only need to convert a few, small files per day.
Step 1: Go to the CloudConvert website and select the files you want to convert. Choose the Select file button in the middle of the page and select the video files you wish to convert to MP3. A pop-up window will appear where you can locate or search for the desired files on your computer.
If you click on the Drop down arrow icon to the right of Select file , you can also choose a file from a URL or from your Dropbox, Google Drive, or OneDrive. Note that you’ll need to sign in to your cloud storage account via the CloudConvert site to access your cloud storage files. Doing so may automatically create a free CloudConvert account.
Once your files are selected, choose the Open button in the lower-right corner of the pop-up window to add your files to the conversion queue.
screenshot / Digital Trends Step 2: Choose your output format. Select the Drop down arrow button that appears after uploading your MP4 file, then select Audio followed by MP3 from the drop-down list.
Choose the Wrench icon located directly beside the file if you wish to fine-tune the audio bit rate, audio Qscale, volume, or length. The latter is an incredibly handy tool if your video has an introduction or ending with undesired audio. When finished, select the red Okay button.
screenshot / Digital Trends How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac How to block an email address in Gmail How to set up multiple monitors for PC gaming Step 3: Select the red Convert button on the right side of the page when you’ve finished setting your desired output preferences. A gray-and-yellow bar will appear indicating the conversion’s current status, along with a cancellation button (a red X next to the gray-and-yellow bar) should you change your mind for whatever reason. Afterward, wait for the conversion to complete.
screenshot / Digital Trends Step 4: It may take some time, but CloudConvert will notify you when your conversion is finished. (A preview of your MP3 track may automatically play so you can hear it before deciding to download it.) Then just select the green Download button to save it to your computer. Now that you ripped your audio, you need a decent MP3 player to play it on.
These are our favorites.
screenshot / Digital Trends Alternative: Any Video Converter (Windows and macOS) You can use our favorite video converter , Any Video Converter, if you want to convert files on your computer.
By using this converter, users can convert MP4 files into a variety of formats, including the highly portable MP3 format. This converter is our top choice due to its high speeds, good video and audio quality, and its wide range of supported devices. AVC also offers advanced options, including cropping and trimming audio files or combining different videos.
Step 1: The AVC website offers a free edition of the Any Video Converter software that you can download directly. You can start the download process with a simple click of the Download now button. After the installation, open the app and select the Format convert option on the main screen.
screenshot/Anita George / Digital Trends Step 2: A pop-up window will appear where you can select the MP4 file as the input.
Once your MP4 video is added as the input, look for the header Output options on the right side of the screen. Under this header, select the Video format drop down menu. From the menu that appears, choose MP3 audio.
Adjust the audio options that appear below as you see fit, then select the blue Start button in the bottom right corner of the screen.
Step 3: When your conversion is complete, select the View output file button that appears. (You don't need to upgrade to Pro to do this, just ignore the rest of that window.) Your new MP3 file’s save location will then automatically open so you can locate your new file on your device right away.
Editors' Recommendations 4 easy ways to take a screenshot on a Windows PC How to get Photoshop for free Here’s how to quickly and easily convert a PDF to Excel How to send a text message from a computer How to use Split View on a Mac How-To How-To Guides Computing While it’s not as popular as MOV or even FLAC files, you might occasionally encounter an MKV, or Matroska, file. When you’re dealing with subtitles on an audio or video track, an MKV file can come in handy.
Computing Many different businesses use Outlook as a way to organize everything from meetings to their employees’ daily tasks. Of course, you can also use Outlook in your personal life as well.
Computing Knowing how to open RAR files can prove to be a valuable skill, especially if you frequently download various drivers, files, and applications from third-party websites. Unlike zip files, Windows does not natively support RAR files, so you'll require a dedicated application for this purpose.
Our recommended programs for opening RAR files are 7-Zip for Windows and The Unarchiver for macOS. Here's how to use them to open RAR files.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
