Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Disney+ Best Star Wars Movies on Disney+ Best Disney Movies on Disney+ Best Movies on Disney+ Best Kids Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best movies on Disney+ right now (November 2023) By Guillermo Kurten , Blair Marnell and Rick Marshall Close Disney+ is one of the best places to stream some of the best movies available. The pace at which the streamer adds original content may be inconsistent, but legacy additions help maintain its mainstream appeal. That’s in large part thanks to reliable brands like Star Wars, Marvel, and National Geographic being constant contributors to the catalog. Having a diverse library is an important asset to help a streamer to stand apart in a packed market, and this monthly guide will help you sift through the Disney+ movie selection for the best titles to stream right now.
If you’re not already fully invested, the Disney Bundle is also worth your money. With this package, customers gain access to Disney+, ESPN+, and Hulu’s ad-supported plan for just $13 a month. Given the diversity of content on offer from these platforms, that’s a respectable value.
If you want to expand your search, we’ve also rounded up the best shows on Disney+ , as well as the best movies on Netflix , the best movies on Amazon Prime , and the best movies on Hulu.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Spider-Man: Far From Home 2019 Haunted Mansion 2023 Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 2023 The Amazing Spider-Man 2 2014 The Slumber Party 2023 Avatar: The Way of Water 2022 Spider-Man: Far From Home (2019) new 129m Action, Adventure, Science Fiction Tom Holland, Samuel L. Jackson, Jake Gyllenhaal Jon Watts watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ The streaming availability for Spider-Man movies isn’t always clearcut due to the complicated licensing rights between Disney/Marvel Studios and Sony. However, Disney+ now adds director Jon Watts’ sophomore endeavor from his trilogy with Spider-Man: Far From Home.
Peter Parker (Tom Holland) and his friends find themselves facing catastrophic supervillain threats while on a school trip across Europe, with the young man struggling to balance his life as a student with that of a hero with deadly serious responsibilities. Jake Gyllenhaal gives a spirited and connivingly entertaining performance as Mysterio, a disgruntled former Stark Industries employee looking to upend Peter’s life to tarnish Tony’s legacy.
Read less Captain Marvel (2019) 124m Action, Adventure, Science Fiction Brie Larson, Samuel L. Jackson, Ben Mendelsohn Ryan Fleck, Anna Boden watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ With Marvel Studios and director Nia DaCosta’s sequel The Marvels releasing in theaters, now is the best time to revisit the 2019 original. Anna Boden and Ryan Fleck’s Captain Marvel chronicles the origin story of Carol Danvers (Brie Larson) and her road to becoming one of the most powerful figures in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
Carol finds herself stuck in the middle of an intergalactic conflict while trying to recollect the memories of her life on Earth. Set against the backdrop of the ’90s, the movie puts an entertaining superhero spin on the Top Gun formula, tying together elements of this world’s past with the events that would eventually lead to Avengers: Endgame.
Read less Deadpool (2016) 108m Action, Adventure, Comedy Ryan Reynolds, Morena Baccarin, Ed Skrein Tim Miller watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ A spinoff X-Men movie from the Fox era of the franchise, director Tim Miller’s Deadpool was a surprise hit for the superhero genre. Led by the funny and charismatic Ryan Reynolds as the titular antihero, the movie follows the tragic origins of Wade Wilson and his relentless hunt for the man who ruined his life.
As tragic as his origins are, Deadpool seamlessly weaves in the character’s signature raunchy comedic edge from the comic book source material. The movie’s success further popularized the idea of R-rated superhero productions, with Reynolds’ casting proving to be a match made in heaven.
Read less Deadpool 2 (2018) 120m Action, Comedy, Adventure Ryan Reynolds, Josh Brolin, Morena Baccarin David Leitch watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Director David Leitch takes the reins for Deadpool 2 , which sees the beloved Merc With a Mouth take on a wider array of threats from the X-Men universe. Wade forces the X-Force superhero team to help save a young mutant boy from a ruthless time-traveling soldier named Cable (Josh Brolin).
Overall, Deadpool 2 doubles down on the action and comedic elements that made the original such a hit, and it largely pays off. Reynolds’ performance as the foul-mouthed mercenary with a heart of gold is as charismatic as fans would hope, and his chemistry with Brolin’s Cable is effortlessly entertaining.
Read less Haunted Mansion (2023) new 123m Fantasy, Comedy Rosario Dawson, Chase W. Dillon, LaKeith Stanfield Justin Simien watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Continuing the trend of Disney looking at anything and everything it has IP-wise to turn into a live-action film, director Justin Simien brings the Haunted Mansion theme park ride to the big screen.
Haunted Mansion follows the the supernatural exploits of Gabbie (Rosario Dawson) and Travis (Chase W. Dillon), as the pair form a team comprised of characters played by LaKeith Stanfield, Danny DeVito, Owen Wilson, and Tiffany Haddish to exorcise the titular mansion.
Though the movie doesn’t do anything spectacular in terms of scares or humor, this impressive ensemble cast puts together a charming and entertaining show. It’ll be an especially fun movie night for families during this Halloween season.
Read less Werewolf by Night (2022) 55m Action, Fantasy, Horror Gael García Bernal, Laura Donnelly, Harriet Sansom Harris Michael Giacchino watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Technically qualifying as a TV special and short film all at once, director Michael Giacchino’s Werewolf by Night is arguably the most inventive production from Marvel Studios in recent years. The composer for Matt Reeves’ The Batman made a strong impression with this feature, telling the story of a group of treasure hunters competing to find an ancient relic — all the while the titular Werewolf stands against them.
Gael García Bernal puts on a standout performance as the conflicted Jack Russell, backed up by Giacchino’s direction and a compelling story by Heather Quinn and Peter Cameron. Complete with smart use of practical effects and stunning black-and-white cinematography to capitalize on the vintage “creature feature” atmosphere, the standalone Werewolf by Night is a refreshing and much-needed change of pace for the MCU.
Read less Logan (2017) 137m Action, Drama, Science Fiction Hugh Jackman, Dafne Keen, Patrick Stewart James Mangold watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Perhaps one of the best superhero movies in general, director James Mangold brought to screen Wolverine’s best theatrical outing in Logan.
 Set in an alternate canon separate from the mainline X-Men movies, this gritty tale sees a punished and battered Wolverine (Hugh Jackman) and Professor Xavier (Patrick Stewart) in a post-apocalyptic countryside where mutants are vehemently persecuted, killed, and experimented on for nefarious purposes.
Along the way, the aged pair ends up defending a young mutant girl named Laura from the mutant-hunting Reavers. A masterful blend of the superhero, neo-noir, and Western film genres and bolstered by Oscar-worthy performances from Jackman and Stewart, Logan is one of the most impactful comic book movies since The Dark Knight.
Read less Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017) 133m Action, Adventure, Science Fiction, Drama Tom Holland, Michael Keaton, Robert Downey Jr.
Jon Watts watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ As the most lucrative singular superhero in pop culture, it was only a matter of time before Spider-Man was rebooted into Marvel Studios’ MCU. Tom Holland’s iteration of the Wall-Crawler came in Captain America: Civil War , but Spider-Man: Homecoming is the hero’s first solo outing.
Directed by Jon Watts, Peter finds himself grappling with the burden of being a responsible hero who still has to balance his day-to-day life as a high schooler, and he’s faced with Michael Keaton’s imposing Vulture as the villain leads crime sprees powered by alien technology.
Spider-Man: Homecoming was a solid debut for the MCU’s rendition of this young hero, with Keaton’s villainous performance being a highlight.
Read less Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 (2023) new 150m Science Fiction, Adventure, Action Chris Pratt, Zoe Saldaña, Dave Bautista James Gunn watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ After an extended delay, James Gunn finally came back to put his finishing touch on the Guardians of the Galaxy trilogy with Vol. 3.
 Set after the events of Avengers: Infinite War and Endgame , Quill and the rest of the misfit superhero crew are still dealing with the death of their timeline’s Gamora.
Now joined by an alternate version of Gamora introduced in Endgame , the Guardians take off on a mission to rescue Rocket Raccoon from the High Evolutionary (played by Chukwudi Iwuji), an alien cyborg scientist who seeks to create his twisted idea of a perfect society.
Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 has been praised for its relentlessly emotional approach and sendoff for this beloved team of underdog superheroes.
Read less The Amazing Spider-Man 2 (2014) new 141m Action, Adventure, Fantasy Andrew Garfield, Emma Stone, Jamie Foxx Marc Webb watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 (2017) 137m Science Fiction, Adventure, Action Chris Pratt, Zoe Saldaña, Dave Bautista James Gunn watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less The Amazing Spider-Man (2012) 136m Action, Adventure, Fantasy Andrew Garfield, Emma Stone, Rhys Ifans Marc Webb watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less The Slumber Party (2023) new 83m Comedy Darby Camp, Emmy Liu-Wang, Valentina Herrera Veronica Rodriguez watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Guardians of the Galaxy (2014) 121m Action, Science Fiction, Adventure Chris Pratt, Zoe Saldaña, Dave Bautista James Gunn watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Star Wars: Episode III - Revenge of the Sith (2005) 140m Adventure, Action, Science Fiction Hayden Christensen, Ewan McGregor, Natalie Portman George Lucas watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Avatar: The Way of Water (2022) new 192m Science Fiction, Adventure, Action Sam Worthington, Zoe Saldaña, Sigourney Weaver James Cameron watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Finding Dory (2016) 97m Adventure, Animation, Comedy, Family Albert Brooks, Ellen DeGeneres, Ed O'Neill Andrew Stanton watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) new 115m Adventure, Action Harrison Ford, Karen Allen, Paul Freeman Steven Spielberg watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ In preparation for Harrison Ford’s last hurrah as Indiana Jones , Disney+ is adding the series’ beloved classics. Directed by the legendary Steven Spielberg, Raiders of the Lost Ark marks the debut of the fan-favorite adventurer trying to stop Nazi forces from securing a dangerous treasure.
The movie was revolutionary for its time, pushing the boundaries for action set pieces and the evolution of the pulpy adventure genre. Indiana Jones is still an iconic character, with the swashbuckling archeologist’s first theatrical outing holding up well even today.
Read less Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom (1984) new 118m Adventure, Action Harrison Ford, Kate Capshaw, Ke Huy Quan Steven Spielberg watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Director Steven Spielberg followed up on the blockbuster hit that was Raiders with the solid Temple of Doom.
 The plot follows Harrison Ford’s treasure-hunting adventurer arriving in India to retrieve a mystical stone and stop a bloodthirsty cult. The local villagers are desperate for Indy’s help, as the Thugee cult indulges in ritual sacrifices, sacrifices, and blood magic.
Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom was well-received for its intense new story and darker approach, though, it was more controversial in the ’80s for its comparatively bleak atmosphere to Raiders.
Read less Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade (1989) new 127m Adventure, Action Harrison Ford, Sean Connery, Denholm Elliott Steven Spielberg watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Once again helmed by Spielberg, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade was a strong finish to the original three movies. While Temple of Doom was technically a prequel to Raiders , Last Crusade moves the timeline forward as Indy travels around the world to rescue his missing father Henry Jones (played by Sean Connery).
Jones Sr. went missing on a hunt for the Holy Grail and was held hostage by Nazis.
Temple of Doom retroactively received the positive reception it deserved, but Last Crusade does well to reintegrate the lighter, swashbuckling atmosphere of the first movie.
Read less Spider-Man 2 (2004) new 127m Action, Adventure, Fantasy Tobey Maguire, Kirsten Dunst, James Franco Sam Raimi watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Spider-Man (2002) 121m Fantasy, Action Tobey Maguire, Willem Dafoe, Kirsten Dunst Sam Raimi watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Spider-Man distribution rights are something of a tussle between Sony and Disney, but Disney+ now hosts some excellent legacy movies. Sam Raimi made his mark on the beloved character’s history with the Tobey Maguire-led Spider-Man.
Co-starring Kirsten Dunst as Mary Jane, James Franco as Harry Osborne, and Willem Dafoe as the Green Goblin, 2002’s Spider-Man is a soulful origin story with exhilarating action. It still holds up well over 20 years later and is a love letter to the iconic superhero’s comic book lore.
Read less Avengers: Endgame (2019) 181m Adventure, Science Fiction, Action Robert Downey Jr., Chris Evans, Mark Ruffalo Anthony Russo, Joe Russo watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ The Marvel Cinematic Universe built itself into a wildly lucrative property since 2008’s Iron Man.
 11 years later, Avengers: Endgame was released to become a pop-culture phenomenon and the crossover event of the decade.
Reeling from the catastrophic events of Infinity War , the Avengers gather who remains to lead a final assault on the galactic conqueror Thanos. The Russo brothers managed to make Endgame a satisfying payoff to 11 years’ worth of mythos and cap off the Infinity Saga.
Read less Avengers: Infinity War (2018) 149m Adventure, Action, Science Fiction Robert Downey Jr., Chris Hemsworth, Mark Ruffalo Anthony Russo, Joe Russo watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ One of the biggest comic book movie events in recent years, Marvel Studios’ Avengers: Infinity War is a jam-packed crossover event. The first in a two-part story with the sequel Endgame , Infinity War finally sees the cosmic threat Thanos — played menacingly by Josh Brolin — take his universe-wide fight to Earth and its mightiest heroes.
It delivers a long-awaited series of clashes and interactions between various heroes and villains, and is a major bright spot in the MCU’s catalog.
Infinity War is constantly tense with action and revelations, setting the stage for this universe’s biggest narrative payoff.
Read less Bears (2014) 78m Documentary John C. Reilly Alastair Fothergill, Keith Scholey watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Captain America: Civil War (2016) 147m Adventure, Action, Science Fiction Chris Evans, Robert Downey Jr., Scarlett Johansson Anthony Russo, Joe Russo watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Black Panther: Wakanda Forever (2022) 162m Action, Adventure, Science Fiction Letitia Wright, Lupita Nyong'o, Danai Gurira Ryan Coogler watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Since the tragic passing of actor Chadwick Boseman, the sequel to Black Panther was always going to have a somber atmosphere about it. However, Ryan Coogler’s Black Panther: Wakanda Forever succeeds in being a tasteful and touching tribute that advanced the story from this corner of the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
In the wake of King T’Challa’s death, the leaders of the nation need to rally together as Namor — the king of an ancient underwater civilization — leads an assault on Wakanda. Angela Bassett, in particular, leads the film with a commanding performance.
Read less Wreck-It Ralph (2012) 101m Family, Animation, Comedy, Adventure John C. Reilly, Sarah Silverman, Jack McBrayer Rich Moore watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Finding Nemo (2003) 100m Animation, Family Albert Brooks, Ellen DeGeneres, Alexander Gould Andrew Stanton watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Disney’s Pixar Animation Studios can always be trusted to put together a memorable animated family movie. 2003’s Finding Nemo has since been regarded as a modern classic, transcending the decade it debuted in theaters.
Starring the likes of Ellen DeGeneres, Geoffrey Rush, and Willem Dafoe, Finding Nemo tells the story of an overprotective clownfish named Marlin who goes on an ocean-wide quest with his forgetful friend Dory to find his lost son Nemo. The movie was released to critical acclaim for its charming brand of humor and heartfelt story that appeals to all audiences.
Read less Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014) 136m Action, Adventure, Science Fiction Chris Evans, Scarlett Johansson, Sebastian Stan Anthony Russo, Joe Russo watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Solo: A Star Wars Story (2018) 135m Science Fiction, Adventure, Action Alden Ehrenreich, Joonas Suotamo, Woody Harrelson Ron Howard watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Return of the Jedi (1983) 135m Adventure, Action, Science Fiction Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher Richard Marquand watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Avatar (2009) pg-13 162m Action, Adventure, Fantasy, Science Fiction Sam Worthington, Zoe Saldaña, Sigourney Weaver James Cameron watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Black Panther (2018) 134m Action, Adventure, Science Fiction Chadwick Boseman, Michael B. Jordan, Lupita Nyong'o Ryan Coogler watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less The Nightmare Before Christmas (1993) pg 76m Fantasy, Animation, Family Chris Sarandon, Danny Elfman, Catherine O'Hara Henry Selick watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Rogue One: A Star Wars Story (2016) pg-13 133m Action, Adventure, Science Fiction Felicity Jones, Diego Luna, Alan Tudyk Gareth Edwards watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Toy Story (1995) g 81m Animation, Adventure, Family, Comedy Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Don Rickles John Lasseter watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less The Princess Bride (1987) pg 99m Adventure, Family, Fantasy, Comedy, Romance Cary Elwes, Robin Wright, Mandy Patinkin Rob Reiner watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Who Framed Roger Rabbit (1988) pg 104m Fantasy, Animation, Comedy, Crime, Family Bob Hoskins, Christopher Lloyd, Joanna Cassidy Robert Zemeckis watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Frozen (2013) pg 102m Animation, Adventure, Family Kristen Bell, Idina Menzel, Jonathan Groff Chris Buck, Jennifer Lee watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ How many times can you watch Frozen ? Only your children know for sure. With the 10th anniversary of its release coming up soon, it has to be said that Frozen has earned its place in Disney history as perhaps the studio’s most popular film since the ‘90s. Idina Menzel stars as Elsa, the estranged Princess of Arendelle who is ostracized from the kingdom because of her incredible ability to bend ice and cold to her will. Kristen Bell also stars as Elsa’s sister, Anna. The sisters haven’t seen each other in years, but they will have to emotionally reconnect if they want to save the kingdom and each other.
Read less Star Wars (1977) pg 121m Adventure, Action, Science Fiction Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher George Lucas watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Forty -five years ago this week, the original Star Wars hit theaters and changed the movies forever. It was subsequently given the “ Episode 4: A New Hope ” name, but to the first generation of fans, it all starts here. In a desperate bid to keep Darth Vader (David Prowse with James Earl Jones as Vader’s voice) from retrieving the plans for a super weapon called the Death Star, Princess Leia (Carrie Fisher) hides them with two droids. From there, destiny awaits a restless young man named Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill), an exiled Jedi called Obi-Wan Kenobi (Alec Guinness), the Wookie Chewbacca (Peter Mayhew), and the scoundrel known as Han Solo (Harrison Ford). Even after all of these years, it’s still a rousing space adventure.
Read less Inside Out (2015) pg 95m Animation, Family, Adventure, Drama, Comedy Amy Poehler, Phyllis Smith, Bill Hader Pete Docter watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Monsters, Inc. (2001) g 92m Animation, Comedy, Family John Goodman, Billy Crystal, Mary Gibbs Pete Docter watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Turning Red (2022) pg 100m Animation, Family, Comedy, Fantasy Rosalie Chiang, Sandra Oh, Jordan Fisher Domee Shi watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Iron Man (2008) pg-13 126m Action, Science Fiction, Adventure Robert Downey Jr., Terrence Howard, Jeff Bridges Jon Favreau watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Encanto (2021) pg 102m Animation, Comedy, Family, Fantasy Stephanie Beatriz, María Cecilia Botero, John Leguizamo Byron Howard, Jared Bush watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Best shows on Disney+ Best Amazon Prime Original movies Best movies on Netflix Best movies on HBO Max Best movies on Hulu The Avengers (2012) pg-13 143m Science Fiction, Action, Adventure Robert Downey Jr., Chris Evans, Mark Ruffalo Joss Whedon watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Star Wars: Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back (1980) pg 124m Sci-Fi, Action, Adventure Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher Irvin Kershner watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Raya and the Last Dragon (2021) pg 107m Family, Fantasy, Animation, Action, Adventure Kelly Marie Tran, Awkwafina, Izaac Wang Don Hall, Carlos López Estrada watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Editors' Recommendations The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now The best comedies on Netflix right now The best movies on Hulu right now (November 2023) Best Products Disney+ Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment Michael Fassbender in The Killer Netflix / Netflix Halloween is gone, Christmas movies are coming around the corner, but the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max (HBO), and other services haven't fully made the switch to Christmas. There are some high-quality additions each week, though, including some Oscar bait. We're keeping track of all of it in this weekly roundup, so you always have something new to watch.
We also have guides to the best movies on Netflix, the best movies on Hulu, the best movies on Amazon Prime Video, and the best movies on HBO.
Entertainment When you need to keep the kids occupied for a while, it's helpful to know the best kids movies on Netflix right now.
Netflix has an enormous library of kid-friendly content, including a host of original choose-your-own-adventure stories, but it's natural as a parent to want to know what your kids is watching. So, to help you find something quickly, we keep tabs on the collection every month and surface the best options here.
Entertainment There's nothing better than a long holiday weekend to catch up on your favorite films on Netflix. This weekend has a particularly strong lineup that includes the streaming debut of David Fincher's The Killer, which was briefly in theaters last month. Additionally, the horror title, Insidious: The Red Door, has some post-Halloween scares, while Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse remains one of the best options for movie lovers of all ages.
Want to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Every week on Friday, we go over the newly available films to update our list of the best movies on Netflix right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
