Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Guides How to use Passkeys in Windows 11 By Jon Martindale Close If you're fed up with us reminding you to use a password manager to remember all your passwords (that you definitely aren't reusing), passkeys could be a great alternative to boosting your security. They let you ditch passwords entirely for a brand of two-factor-authentication that's more secure and more convenient than unique passwords have ever been.
How to use passkeys on a website How to manage passkeys in Windows 11 What are passkeys? Passkeys are a way to use your phone or another device as a way to securely login to different sites and services. It's something you've been able to use on your phone for a while now, but Passkeys are now a part of Windows 11's 22H2 build (and its upcoming 23H2 ), and you can start using them right now.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Windows 11 PC with the latest 22H2 updates Chrome or Edge version 109 or later How to use passkeys on a website You can use passkeys on a range of websites, but for our example we're going to use Gmail. You can find a list of services that are compatible with passkeys, on Passkeys.io.
Step 1: Navigate to the Google Passkey page, here.
 Log in if prompted, then select Create a passkey.
Jon Martindale / DigitalTrends Step 2: A popup will appear asking you to either confirm your identity using Windows Hello, or set it up initially. If you haven't set it up, do so by following the onscreen prompts. If you have, use your biometric or other login system to confirm your identity to make the passkey.
If Google gives you a choice of device, select your computer before completing the Windows Hello login.
What does printer spooling mean, and how to fix it on Windows and Mac A major Windows update just launched. Here’s what’s new How to remove a login password on Windows 11 Step 3: Now that you've created a passkey, it's a good idea to test that it's working. Navigate to your Gmail account, then logout and try logging in again. Now, when you try to do so, Google should prompt you to use your passkey instead of your password. Select Continue to do so (or select Try another way if you'd rather use your password like normal).
Step 4: A Windows Hello popup should appear, prompting you for your biometric login, your pin code, or a security key, depending on how your Windows Hello is configured. Give it, and select OK.
Jon Martindale / DigitalTrends Step 5: That should log you in to your Google account. You now have quick passkey login for Google. It should be stored across multiple browsers on the same device, too, so if you login with a different compatible browser instead, you can use your passkey then and there.
You can add passkeys for other websites, though the process for adding them will be slightly different depending on the website.
How to manage passkeys in Windows 11 You can take a look at all your passkeys in Windows 11. You can't do much with them beyond delete any you no longer want or need, but it's a good way to check out which services you have set up for passkey use.
Step 1: Open the Windows 11 Settings menu by pressing Windows key + I.
Step 2: Select Accounts from the left-hand menu.
Step 3: Select Passkey settings.
Step 4: From this screen you can browse or search through your list of passkeys. To delete any of them, select the three-dot menu from the right-hand side and select Delete.
What are passkeys? Passkeys are a secure alternative to password-logins that use a known-safe device, like your Windows 11 desktop, to confirm your identity.
Passkeys have two main components: a public key held by the website or service you want to login to, and a private key, held by your device. When you try to login to the site or service, your device verifies you using your private key, but without providing it to the service. That means that there's no chance of your security being compromised, and it makes it impossible to reverse engineer your passkey. Beyond making it so you don't have to remember complicated, unique passwords anymore, passkeys give hackers another step they have to take to compromise your accounts, which makes it much less likely to be worth their time and effort.
Passkeys let you enter a username/email, and then confirm your ID through your passkey -- which can be as simple as showing your face to your webcam, thanks to Windows Hello.
Passkeys are a password and two-factor-authentication system rolled into one.
Editors' Recommendations Windows 11 might finally reverse course on preinstalled applications How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac How to find your computer specs on Windows 11 Surprise: Windows 11 is doing much better than we thought I love Macs. But here are 5 reasons I keep coming back to Windows How-To Guides Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 11 Windows Guides Computing I install Windows 11 a lot. Be it for a clean slate on a PC that's acting up or a brand new PC, anyone who tinkers with computers will find themselves interacting with the Windows installer quite a bit. And it's far from perfect.
Over the past year, it's gotten worse, too. This is because Windows 11 now requires you to connect to the internet before proceeding with installation. If you don't have a connection (or another issues occurs, as I'll get to in a moment), you're out of luck. You're stuck. Thankfully, there's a Windows 11 shortcut that can crack open the installer and give you a lot more power: Shift + F10.
Computing If you've just upgraded to the latest version of the Windows operating system, Windows 11, you're probably ready to dive in and customize its appearance. One easy way to customize Windows 11 is by adding a theme. And if you're in need of some Windows 11 theme inspiration, have a look at our list of the best Windows 11 themes.
Below, you will find some of our current favorite themes for the Windows 11 OS and why we enjoy them.
Explore native Windows 11 themes first Computing Change is a constant in the world of technology, and operating systems are no exception. Windows 11, with its sleek interface and improved features, may have tempted you into an upgrade. Yet, as with any change, there can be a multitude of reasons why you might want to revert to your previous OS or explore alternative options. In this guide, we'll explain how to uninstall Windows 11.
Whether you're facing compatibility issues, prefer the familiarity of an earlier Windows version, or simply wish to explore other possibilities, we've got you covered.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
