Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features I tried fixing my bad posture with an annoying pop-up app — and it worked By Jon Martindale Close Did you sit up straighter after reading this sentence? I know I did after I wrote it. As a work-from-home writer and frequent PC gamer, I’m constantly battling against poor posture and the ailments that come with it. Back pain for me, is never far away, so I’ve tried lots of different ways to improve it. And they have, but my latest attempt has been more successful than most, purely because of the sheer annoyance of it.
Don’t I do enough already? SitApp It’s annoying, but it really works I’ve been using an app to remind me to stand up straighter. I hate it, but it is working.
Don’t I do enough already? Stock images like this give me back pain by proxy.
Unsplashed Beyond just spending 80% of my day sitting or standing in front of a computer, I have a canted pelvis and astigmatism in one eye, so leaning forward and tilting myself at wonky angles is a constant temptation. I have a sit/stand desk, though, that I use as often as my occasional knee pain will allow, an ergonomic chair for when I can’t, and a footrest, all to promote good posture.
I play PC games standing up, and you should too Despite these efforts, and a focus on back strengthening exercises and regular stretching, I still find myself all too often slouching on an elbow, slumped down in a chair, or leaning on an armrest. It’s not good. A few days of that and that nerve pinch in my shoulder blade will re-appear and I panic myself into improving until it goes away again.
But it always comes back, because I inevitably forget and lazily slump and slouch again.
So, I’m trying something more drastic. Something that will browbeat me into standing up straight once and for all. I’ve installed an automatic posture bot.
SitApp I already have a real love-hate relationship with this little guy. He’s my back pain end boss.
Jon Martindale / DigitalTrends It’s called SitApp , and it’s freely available for Windows and Mac if you want to give it a try. Once installed, you calibrate it using your webcam so it can detect good posture, and then poor posture poses (You can input as many of those as you like). When running, it’ll detect whenever you’re slouching or committing one of your custom posture sins and remind you to change that by popping up in the corner.
The droid will, at least. That’s what SitApp calls its annoying posture reminder pop-up. The little Portal-core-esque thing pops out of the corner of your screen to remind you to return to a correct and healthy posture. It’s pretty responsive and reacts quickly when you do get back to position, although you may need to run the calibration tool a few times depending on how sensitive or accurate you want it to be to certain positions (if you find it too sensitive, try just using one poor posture example).
If you don’t respond quickly enough, your screen will start to redden as the little droid shows its displeasure with your posture. This can be a little annoying and distracting when you first start using it, but if you have it calibrated right, that’s just a good indication of how often you unknowingly surrender your healthy seated or standing position.
You can earn posture badges for hitting certain milestones for additional incentive — although these too are quite annoying to start with, since they pause the posture monitoring to reward you — and a timer lets you know how long you’ve been going for.
It automatically pauses when you aren’t there, too. That doesn’t really matter, because who’s it going to get to stand up straighter if you’ve wandered off? But it’s cool to see it recognizes that at least, and it helps with the tracked stats.
It’s annoying, but it really works You can track your posture over time and see if you’re improving.
Jon Martindale / DigitalTrends The light data tracking and reporting for your posture is a neat touch, as you’ll be able to see any improvements in your seated or standing position over time. The only thing is, the droid is so annoying when you’re not sitting or standing up properly, that I don’t spend any real time in a “bad posture.” If I get tired and can’t keep standing up straight anymore, I just end up turning it off.
That’s OK, though. Like any new exercise or physical task you set yourself, it’s important to give yourself the time to get used to it. I have a tendency to obsess over the new, so I’m tempted to keep at it all day. But it’s proving much better to give myself the time for my back to strengthen and not burn out on the sheer annoyance of that little droid.
Don’t fear the data collection, either. SitApp makes it very clear in its setup and in the posture tracking calibration, that it doesn’t record any information from your webcam, and nothing is transmitted over the internet at all. The privacy policy seems solid, although I’m no legal expert. I had ChatGPT check the terms and conditions for me, and I’m assured it’s all above board.
So here we are. I’m standing up a bit straighter and having less back pain because of it. I still haven’t quite nailed the calibration — the droid often pops out when I turn to look at my second monitor — but it’s getting there and it is making a difference.
For a free app that only politely asks you to buy the developer a coffee in return? That’s a pretty good trade.
Editors' Recommendations I couldn’t manage my work and social life without this one app Features Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
