Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Surface Laptop Go 3 vs. Surface Pro 7+: is it an upgrade? By Jon Martindale Close The Surface Laptop Go 3 is Microsoft’s new affordable Surface laptop, with upgraded hardware and long battery life making it a compelling option for budget laptop buyers in 2023. But for anyone considering an upgrade to a Surface device at around that $800 price, the Surface Pro 7+ still presents an attractive purchase, and it can flip into a tablet when you need it.
Availability and pricing Specs Design Performance Buying newer is still better That brings to mind the age-old question, of whether newer is automatically better. In this case, it might not be. Let’s take a look at the Surface Laptop Go 3 versus Surface Pro 7+, to find out.
DigitalTrends Availability and pricing The Surface Pro 7+ was initially released in 2021 as a business-focused refresh of the original Pro 7 at a base price of $800. It featured various next-generation CPUs, better battery life, and the option of more memory. However, higher-end configurations were much more expensive, costing over $2,000 for the very top model. Today it’s almost impossible to find, especially in the base configuration — though some Business models are still available through the Microsoft store. Availability is unlikely to improve.
The Surface Laptop Go 3 was announced at Microsoft’s September 2023 event and is available for preorder now. It will officially ship out to customers and go on sale, on October 3. Its base model has an Intel Core i5-1235U, 8GB of RAM , and a 256GB SSD for $800. You can upgrade to 16GB of RAM for $1,000.
The Surface Laptop Go 3 was unveiled at Microsoft’s September 2023 event.
Jacob Roach / DigitalTrends Specs Surface Laptop Go 3 Surface Pro 7+ CPU Intel Core i5-1235U Intel Core i3-1115G4, Core i5-1135G7, Core i7-1165G7 RAM 8GB, 16GB 8GB, 16GB, 32GB Graphics Intel Iris Xe Intel UHD, Intel Iris Xe Storage 256GB SSD 128GB, 256GB, 512GB, 1TB SSD Display 12.4-inch touchscreen, 1536 x 1024 12.3-inch touchscreen, 2736 x 1824 Ports USB-C, USB-A, headphone jack, Surface Connect USB-C, USB-A, headphone jack, Surface Connect, MicroSDXC card reader Battery life 15 hours 15 hours The M3 Max makes the MacBook Pro look like a nearly unbeatable laptop Best Surface Laptop and Surface Pro deals: Prices from just $500 Surface Pro 10: here’s what to expect from the next generation With several years between the release of these two devices, it’s no surprise that their specifications look quite different. The Surface Laptop Go 3 features more modern hardware, with a much more impressive processor, with more cores and better performance in single and multi-threaded workloads. Memory options are similar across both devices, though business buyers have the choice of 32GB with the Pro 7+ if they wish.
The Pro 7+ also holds a big advantage in storage size. While the Surface Laptop Go 3 does have a removable SSD, it is limited to a mere 256GB which is rather small by 2023 standards. You can swap it out or augment it with an external drive, but the Pro 7+ can have as much as a terabyte of storage right out of the box.
Both devices have touchscreen displays, but the Surface Pro 7’s is vastly more detailed with a much higher resolution. It’s also designed to work like a tablet and can be folded flat as part of its 2-in-1 convertibility. The Surface Laptop Go 3 does support touch inputs, but can’t fold out into a dedicated tablet device.
Both laptops have strong battery life, lasting up to 15 hours between charges.
Jacob Roach / DigitalTrends Design The Surface Laptop Pro 7+ was an excellent 2-in-1 laptop in its day, offering strong performance, long battery life, and a very detailed touchscreen. It’s a lightweight device too at just 1.7 pounds, and with a detachable keyboard, it’s even more lightweight and functional when held in one hand as a tablet. It also offers good support for the Surface Pen, although there’s no slot for charging it like there is in later Surface Pro models.
The Surface Laptop Go 3 is a newer device, and its design looks like it. It comes in a range of colors and features much slimmer bezels. It can only function as a clamshell laptop, though, even with its touchscreen. While it’s still lightweight at just over two pounds, it’s almost 50% heavier than the Surface Pro 7+, making it a little less portable.
Port selection is almost identical between the two, with a distinct lack of Thunderbolt support on the more modern Laptop Go 3. Both come equipped with Windows 11 , though it’s likely the Surface Laptop Go 3 will come with a more recent build, requiring less immediate updating. The Pro 7+ has a higher resolution 1080p webcam, versus the 720p model in the Laptop Go 3.
Microsoft Performance Chip for chip, the Surface Laptop Go 3 has an advantage. Its more modern Intel Core i5-1235U CPU has 10 cores (2P/8E), with support for 12 simultaneous threads. In comparison, the absolute best, highest-end Surface Pro 7+ CPU, the Core i7-1165G7 has just four cores, with support for eight simultaneous threads. Due to the higher clock speed of the Core i7, it claws back a bit of performance, but ultimately the newer Laptop Go 3 should be faster.
That’s faster than the top Pro 7+ model, too. With its price tag that’s more than two times that of the Laptop Go 3.
However, the CPU isn’t the whole story. With just 8GB of RAM, there will be some more demanding tasks that the base model Laptop Go 3 struggles with. Upgrading to 16GB should alleviate that and expand its ability to multi-task, likely making it faster than just about any configuration of the Surface Pro 7+. The Business model with 32GB of RAM might hold some advantages in specific memory-intensive tasks, but that older 11th-gen CPU just won’t be able to keep up with most tasks.
With storage there is an advantage with the Pro 7+, but again only if you’re willing to pay for it. It would be a lot cheaper to buy the base model Surface Laptop Go 3 and attach a fast external SSD if you need more space. It won’t be as fast, but it won’t be that much slower, either.
Buying newer is still better As much as the Surface Pro 7+ might still hold a few advantages over the Surface Laptop Go 3, it’s hard to recommend a more than two-year-old refresh of a three-year-old device, over something brand new. The webcam in the Laptop Go 3 is lower resolution, and it’s heavier, and it can’t convert into a tablet. But it’s faster than even the fastest Pro 7+ and is much cheaper. In some cases less than half the price.
If you particularly need a tablet and a laptop in one, then the Pro 7+ might be better — but in that case, you should look at our favorite 2-in-1s instead.
 For anyone else, a Surface Laptop Go 3 is going to be better. It performs better, looks far more modern, and will offer much greater longevity.
Intrigued by what a bigger budget might get you? Check out the new Surface Laptop Studio 2.
 It’s gorgeous.
Editors' Recommendations The best budget laptops for 2023 This sleeper Asus laptop is faster and cheaper than Microsoft’s Surface Laptop Go 3 Should you buy the Surface Laptop Studio or wait for the Surface Laptop Studio 2? Surface Laptop Go 3 specs: what’s the best configuration? Surface Laptop Studio 2 specs: which should you buy? Laptops Microsoft Computing The Surface Pen is an excellent accessory for the Surface Laptop Studio 2, and yes, it works well with it. You can use the Surface Pen on the Surface Laptop Studio 2 for all kinds of tasks, from note-taking to doodlin, and sketching. The screen of the next-gen Surface Laptop Studio might be the same as the last one, but it still really lends itself to that sort of nuanced interaction, letting you get pixel-perfect drawing and writing from the Surface Pen.
Th Pen is still magnetic too, so it's always on hand when you need it.
Computing At today's Surface event, Microsoft announced the third generation of its budget-priced Surface Laptop Go, the premium Surface Laptop Studio 2, and the Surface Go 4. Sporting a Microsoft pedigree, the Surface Laptop Go 3 is worth considering if you're looking for a nice-looking touchscreen notebook.
Microsoft upgraded several components in this year's offering to make the Surface Laptop Go 3 more competitive. Microsoft upgraded the processor to a 12th Gen Core i5-1235U, which deliversa massive upgrade of 88% faster performance. Memory and storage capacity are larger than ever for a Surface Laptop Go, with 8GB of RAM and a 256GB SSD. At the same time, battery life increases from 13 to 15 hours, so you can go all day with this laptop.
Computing When it comes to laptops, it seems like there's always something new and exciting over the horizon. In the case of the Microsoft Surface Pro line, that's literally the case right now, with the Surface Pro 10 almost certainly set to debut at the end of September. But what do you do if you need another 2-in-1 laptop right now? Should you wait a little longer for the Surface Pro 10, or get a Surface Pro 9 instead? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
