Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Why owning the best PC hardware didn’t make me a better gamer By Jon Martindale Close Digital Trends Give it up, guys. It turns out you can have every possible advantage going for you as a gamer — the most powerful PC, the fastest gaming monitor, the lightest of gaming mice, and the most low-profile of gaming keyboards – but if you just aren’t very good, none of it makes much of a difference.
The man The machine The legend … of the terrible gamer The takeaway I really hoped it would, too. I’ve recently been dabbling in some competitive FPS (first-person shooter) play on my PC and decided to give myself every leg up my combined salary and review sample back catalog could manage. And though I’m sure it helped, I didn’t receive the advantage I was hoping for.
The man Let me set the stage for you. I’m a mid-30s, typically single-player PC gamer who hasn’t taken competitive gaming seriously since the launch of Rocket League.
 I used to play Unreal Tournament 2004 in my teens, along with Half Life mods, some Counter-Strike 1.6 , and a little Halo when we could get enough original Xboxes and TVs together. More recently, I’ve dabbled in the odd Call of Duty single-player campaign — and I loved Evolve while it lasted — but I haven’t played much in the way of PVP (player versus player) FPS games for a decade or more.
That said, I am a regular gamer. When my kids allow it, I play RPGs and strategy games. I also enjoy some first-person survival experiences, which are closer in perspective to competitive FPS games, even if they aren’t exactly as taxing.
So, while I don’t see myself as a good FPS gamer, or even a recently experienced one, I’m no noob. My hand naturally sits in a WASD claw shape on a keyboard, I know to use numbers for weapon switching, and I’m not above toggling my DPI to get an advantage on a slow-moving turret.
But I know I’m not good.
 So, when I had to do some esports performance tests for Digital Trends, I decided I’d like to dip my toe into the competitive scene again, just to see if I’ve still got it. But I’m not some cash-strapped teen playing custom UT 2004 Assault maps on my Athlon 64 and CRT monitor anymore. Now, I’m a cash-strapped dad with access to a lot of tasty hardware from my various writing jobs. It’s time to show these kids what a dad can do when he brings some real gaming hardware to the table. Or so I thought.
The machine Bonus points if you spot the LED gloved-hand reflection.
Jon Martindale / DigitalTrends To start with, I built myself a whole new PC. It was time to upgrade my aging 5700X and 3070 Ti anyway — that’s the excuse I gave myself (and my wife). I’d been lucky enough to have been sent a stack of the latest hardware from all the major camps by a couple of companies I write for, so I had the pick of the litter. I ultimately settled on the following: CPU: AMD Ryzen 7950X3D Cooler: MSI MAG CoreLiquid 360R Motherboard: Asus ROG Crosshair X670E Hero RAM: 32GB Kingston Fury Renegade 5200MHz Graphics: PowerColor RX 7900 XTX Storage: 1TB Samsung 980 Pro, 2TB WD SN770 PSU: EVGA SuperNOVA 850GT Gold Case: Fractal Design North For those of you raising a couple of eyebrows, let me say that, yes, I did all the BIOS updates to play safe , and I’m aware I could have used faster memory. I was keen to use the hardware I have, when I could, so I saved a bit by using this slightly slower RAM.
 I thought about using an RTX 4090 instead, but the old Athlon fan in me liked the idea of an all-AMD PC, and ultimately, the RTX 4090 clearance in my mid-tower case was tighter than I’d like, so I went with the XTX instead.
It’s not the most powerful gaming PC money can buy, but it’s pretty close. I paired it up with an Asus MG279Q gaming monitor, which might not be the fastest in the world anymore, but it still has a 144Hz refresh rate. Having played on faster monitors , I’ll be honest: I can’t really tell the difference above 160Hz anyway.
I used the Logitech G Pro Wireless mouse with Lightspeed gaming mat for wireless recharging, and the Logitech G915 low-profile gaming keyboard with its 1.5 mm actuation depth and fast tactile switches.
I hooked all that up to a fast modern router with a Cat 6E Ethernet cable , enabled AMD Anti-Lag (before AMD removed it ), turned on Smart Access Memory, used DT Computing writer Jacob Roach’s guide to tweak my in-game performance settings , and sat down to some serious gaming with every advantage I could think of.
It didn’t go well.
The legend … of the terrible gamer The new smoke physics are not making my job any easier.
Jon Martindale / DigitalTrends Spawn, dead. Spawn, dead. Spawn, dead. That was my experience during my attempt at Valorant performance testing.
 “Yea, this game’s not for me,” I told myself. It’s not me, it’s the game that is wrong.
On to something I have at least kind of played before.
Counter-Strike 2.
 I’ve played a few rounds of de_dust2 in my time, so surely with my newly built monster machine, I’d be able to hold my own a little more. And I did, but man do I not react fast enough for this game either. I played for a few days taking performance results, while also taking the game more seriously than my dalliance with Valorant.
But whether it was the opening round with pistols and smokes, or a later one with shotguns and rifles, I could barely last half the round. I got a little better with some practice, and I could definitely see myself reaching a level of competence with a lot of practice, but I was starting to draw a conclusion beyond the best Counter Strike 2 settings : All the advantages I had given myself at the start of this journey were making no discernible difference at all.
The high frame rates, high refresh rate, and anti-lag software tweaks weren’t letting me react faster than the enemy. My gaming mouse might have been super lightweight and unimpeded by cable drag, but that doesn’t stop my accuracy from being terrible. The gaming keyboard doesn’t do much if I die while I’m already flooring the W key.
My only real win came in testing Fortnite.
 I won my first round! I had one of those coveted victory royales that all the kids have been talking about for a few years. I even did a stupid dance to celebrate.
It turned out the whole game was full of bots.
Of course it was.
The takeaway So, I’m not a very good competitive FPS player. Perhaps I never was, though it’s clear to see why pro gaming is so dominated by those with younger eyes and faster reflexes. However, what is abundantly clear to me is that you can tweak your system until your input lag is almost zero, and unless you can react fast enough to take advantage of it, it doesn’t matter. You can have the highest frame rates in the world, but if you don’t know what you’re doing tactically and strategically, you’re going to have a bad time.
It’s probably still worth making those tweaks if you can, and if you take your games seriously or are legitimately good, then a faster gaming PC will help a bit. It might make you a slightly better gamer, but it won’t make you a good gamer. I learned that the hard way.
I also reminded myself why I don’t play esports games. It’s not just that I can’t be bothered with toxic chat — us parents with young kids get yelled at enough as it is — it’s that that style of game is just too fast and too demanding for the kind of casual gamer I’m morphing into as I get older. I’m not ditching the genre entirely, though. This recent spate of shooters has rekindled a real joy in that kind of combative game. I just need something slower and more objective focused.
So, I’ve been playing Hell Let Loose.
 I’m still dying a lot, but at least I get to spend a few minutes crawling through hedgerows first.
Gaming Features PC Gaming Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
