Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides What is chroma subsampling? By Jon Martindale Close Chroma subsampling is one of the most effective ways to watch high-resolution, high refresh rate content without the massive bandwidth that’s needed to transmit such signals. Like display stream compression (DSC), chroma subsampling is a compression technique that, when used effectively, is almost indistinguishable from the native image.
What is chroma subsampling? How does chroma subsampling work? Should you use chroma subsampling? It works by removing some of the color information from the picture or video, while retaining all the luminance (brightness information). It reduces bandwidth, opening up more space for higher resolution and refresh rate signals. This makes higher refresh rate UHD monitors possible, and platforms like Disney+ and Netflix just wouldn’t work as well without this technology.
Even cutting-edge TVs like the Samsung S95C still make use of chroma subsampling on their HDMI 2.1 ports.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends What is chroma subsampling? As mentioned, chroma subsampling a signal removes some of the color information from the image or video, while retaining information related to brightness. This reduces the overall bandwidth required to transmit the signal, but does not affect the eventual image to a great extent. Unlike display stream compression, which is visually lossless, chroma subsampling does produce artifacts on occasion, though it’s typically hard to spot unless you’re looking for it.
Indeed, the reason chroma subsampling is so effective, and is so widely used, is because of a trick of the human eye. While humans are excellent at spotting contrast — the difference between light and dark — they aren’t as good at spotting a difference in color. That’s why in chroma subsampled images and video, the full luminance data is transmitted, but the color data is restricted. Although this does reduce the variance in color within an image, it’s very hard for even trained eyes to spot unless they’re really looking for it.
What is Thunderbolt 5? What is a CPU? Here’s everything you need to know Laptop buying guide: what to look for in 2023 That’s why most movies are broadcast on all major streaming platforms with chroma subsampling utilized, and it’s even used with UHD Blu-rays, which are largely considered the highest-quality way to watch movies.
Above, you can see the effect of different chroma subsampling techniques. The lower images show color resolution.
Janke / Wikimedia The above images show just how little difference there is when removing large portions of the color resolution with more extreme chroma subsampling techniques.
How does chroma subsampling work? A standard video signal has two main components: luminance information and color information. When completely uncompressed, such a signal is termed 4:4:4, where every pixel has its own set of chrominance (color) values. This is the highest possible quality for a video, with no subsampling in place.
A marginally compressed signal is termed 4:2:2, and it has color information for every other pixel, with those other pixels copying the color information from their neighbors. So in a two by two block of pixels, each pixel has its own luminance data, while each group of two shares the color data. This is often used in professional video editing, where it reduces the data rate without impacting the visual quality at all.
Broadcasting, streaming, and UHD Blu-rays use a more aggressive chroma subsampling of 4:2:0, where there is only one pixel with color data for every four pixels. A block of two by two pixels would have luminance data for each pixel, but share the color data across all of them. While this sounds dramatic (and the effect it has on bandwidth is dramatic), the end result is still almost impossible to distinguish from 4:2:2, or 4:4:4.
Chroma subsampling is typically not enabled by default on PC monitors, because it can cause problems with the legibility of small text — something that’s much more readily viewed on monitors than TVs.
Should you use chroma subsampling? Chroma subsampling is one of several compression techniques that can be used to reduce the overall bandwidth required to transmit video. For consumers, DSC has largely taken the place of chroma subsampling, as it is entirely visually lossless and unlocks the kind of additional bandwidth necessary for high refresh rates and resolutions.
That’s not to say that chroma subsampling is redundant, though. Indeed, it’s still a major component in the functionality of modern streaming services , and modern UHD Blu-rays, which take advantage of it to store the masses of chroma and luminance data required for 4K resolution video.
Chroma subsampling is still handy when using older displays that don’t support DSC. It’s also a major component of some static image algorithms, like the way JPEGs are made.
Chroma subsampling can still be useful and is used regularly by various industries and in niche settings. For general consumers, however, DSC is arguably a more effective compression system. It’s far more modern and you’re more likely to find it enabled by default in cases where you could use it, so you shouldn’t need to use chroma subsampling manually.
Editors' Recommendations What is Display Stream Compression? Everything you need to know about DSC What is ray tracing, and how will it change games? What is RAM? Here’s everything you need to know What is Auto-GPT? Here’s how autonomous AI agents are taking over the internet What is 5G? Speeds, coverage, comparisons, and more LG Computing AMD’s Zen 4 processors could be in deep trouble, according to recent sales data. In fact, it looks like Zen 4 chips could be five times less popular than the previous-generation Zen 3. Why is no one buying Zen 4? The data comes from German retailer Mindfactory (via Reddit), which provides daily sales data for a range of processors, both Intel and AMD. And the findings for December 2022 do not make pleasant reading for fans of Team Red.
Computing If you spend a lot of time online, chances are you’ve heard of Reddit. The site once billed itself as the “front page of the internet,” and that’s not an empty boast. As of November 2022, Reddit is the fourth most visited site in the U.S., according to Semrush, and the sixth most visited worldwide. So, what exactly is Reddit? Essentially, it’s a massive collection of forums where people can share news and content or comment on other people’s posts. Here's everything you need to know.
Further reading Best subreddits Most popular YouTube videos Computing With the arrival of Intel’s 12th-generation Alder Lake CPUs in October 2021, the chip maker officially introduced support for PCIexpress (PCIe) 5.0. On the other hand, AMD is also set to adopt the latest standard with its Ryzen 7000 series CPUs when they launch in September 2022. But what exactly is PCIe 5.0, and is it worth the upgrade? What is PCIe? Before we talk about PCIe 5.0, let us first understand what PCIexpress is, commonly abbreviated as PCIe. Short for Peripheral Component Interconnect Express, PCIe is an important interface standard that lets you connect various devices to your motherboard to communicate with the CPU. These include graphics cards, solid-state drives (SSDs), sound cards, capture cards, USB hubs, and various other components. They're the elongated slots on your motherboard that run parallel to one another.
High-end motherboards like this Z690 board have several PCIe slots. Image used with permission by copyright holder Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
