Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides What is Display Stream Compression? Everything you need to know about DSC By Jon Martindale Close Display Stream Compression (DSC) is a compression algorithm that lets monitors and TVs display resolutions and refresh rates that they wouldn’t be otherwise capable of handling. It improves the capabilities of HDMI and DisplayPort cables, letting them too, serve displays that are higher resolution and refresh rate than they are natively capable of doing. DSC does all this without almost anyone knowing. You’ve probably had it enabled without realizing it.
What is DSC? How does DSC work? Should I use DSC? That’s because DSC is a visually lossless compression format. While not mathematically lossless, you’d be very hard-pressed to see any kind of difference with DSC enabled. That’s a good thing because it means that your 4K 240Hz monitor can handle all that data it needs without compromising on quality.
The Samsung Neo G8 uses DSC to enable 4K 240Hz over DisplayPort 1.4.
Jacob Roach / DigitalTrends What is DSC? DSC is a VESA-developed compression algorithm that’s supported by most modern TVs and monitors.
 It was first introduced in March 2014, but it wasn’t until version 1.2 was released in 2016 that it was officially included in the DisplayPort 1.4 specification. Version 1.2 was also added to the HDMI 2.1 specification in 2017, making DSC much more widely available. It’s since been adopted by DisplayPort 2.0/2.1.
The purpose of DSC was to reduce the amount of information being transmitted from a source device, like a gaming PC or UHD Blu-ray player, to a TV or monitor. In practice, this means DisplayPort 1.4 can support 4K 240Hz displays, despite the fact that the cable doesn’t actually have the raw bandwidth to support such a resolution and refresh rate combination.
AMD FSR 3: everything you need to know about Fluid Motion Frames Everything you need to know about mini-ITX What is GDDR7? Everything you need to know about next-gen VRAM You can see this with the excellent Samsung Neo G8 , which comes with DisplayPort 1.4 and HDMI 2.1 inputs, and yet it can receive a full 4K 240Hz signal from either port option.
DSC can also be used by USB-C, USB4, and Thunderbolt 3/4 connectors to transmit higher-quality video than their bandwidth would allow.
The Samsung S95C uses DSC to enable 4k 144Hz, as its HDMI 2.1 ports do not have the full bandwidth required for native transmission.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends / DigitalTrends How does DSC work? DSC is a mathematically lossy, but visually lossless compression algorithm. That means that although there are some differences in the eventual image that is produced after the compression is applied, the human eye can’t really register it. It uses a range of encoding tools to achieve this but ultimately can deliver a 3:1 reduction in the size of the data being transmitted. It manages this with just a 0.5-microsecond increase in overall latency, making it the kind of technique that you can use during gaming without it having any kind of impact on the look or feel of your play.
This makes it possible for HDMI 2.1 to handle up to 10K at 120Hz (when also using chroma subsampling ), or DisplayPort 2.1 to manage up to a single 16K display at 60Hz with 10-bit color and HDR.
It’s important to remember, however, that DSC only affects the data that’s transmitted from the device to the display. It doesn’t help your graphics card in the same way that FSR or DLSS does, so you’ll still need a GPU that can render your games at whatever resolution and frame rate you’re targeting, regardless of whether you use DSC or not.
Should I use DSC? Yes, absolutely. There’s no chance you’ll notice any difference with it enabled, and if your monitor and graphics card support it, then you’re likely already using it and didn’t realize it. Most of the cutting-edge 4K high refresh rate monitors utilize DSC in some capacity, and its use is what enables the latest Nvidia graphics cards to still sport DisplayPort 1.4 connectors, rather than the DisplayPort 2.1 found on AMD’s RX 7000 series.
Editors' Recommendations What is NVMe? Everything you need to know about high-speed storage What is a CPU? Here’s everything you need to know What is RAM? Here’s everything you need to know Everything you need to know about buying a GPU in 2023 Apple M2 Ultra: everything you need to know about Apple’s most powerful chip Computing Wi-Fi 7 is the latest evolution in the 802.11 IEEE standard of wireless networking, and it's the direct sequel to Wi-Fi 6 and Wi-Fi 6E. It's faster, offers improved support for a greater number of simultaneous connections, and will be more adaptable, to better maintain low-latency connections. It will be an excellent solution for streaming ultra-high-definition video to multiple devices simultaneously, and may find use in future wireless virtual reality and augmented reality headsets.
There aren't many Wi-Fi 7 devices or routers available just yet, but a soft launch has already begun in China, and that rollout will gather sped in the coming years. To get you ready for the next generation of Wi-Fi technology, here's everything you need to know about Wi-Fi 7.
Computing Memes are a cultural shorthand that, like all forms of communication, evolve with those who use them. Nobody can claim to know or understand every single meme that exists. There are simply too many, and they can often be too personal to the individuals creating and sharing them. Still, there are some common elements that can help you understand them.
What makes a meme a meme? Even if memes seem impossible to understand, chances are you've come across at least one over the years that's made sense to you. Whether you partook in the Ice Bucket Challenge, have a "Keep Calm" mug on your desk at work, or have ever used the words "fail" or "winning" ironically or not, then you've participated in a meme. You found out about it through word of mouth, you understood it, you changed its context, and you appropriated it for your own usage. And these are the key components of what makes a meme a meme.
While an outright definition of a meme is hard to nail down, the term is most often associated with an image or video that portrays a particular concept or idea that is then usually spread through online social platforms. That idea goes on to proliferate through social media, forums, instant messaging apps, and even news sites. The images and videos that convey the message are often altered and built upon during this process, which often results in the evolution of the original idea into something else entirely. They may simply be posted with a new caption to portray an altered form of it.
Computing The Video Electronics Standards Association (VESA) has recently announced plans to standardize its DisplayPort UHBR (Ultra-high Bit Rate) support with a certification program, which will enable video source, display, and cable products to use properly labeled cables in their intended fashion.
This update from VESA comes after confusion arose from the release of the new HDMI 2.1 specification, which is not entirely compatible with some HDMI 2.0 cables that have since been retired, and certain new features, such as 4K 120Hz video, might not function.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
