Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best movies on Hulu right now (November 2023) By Blair Marnell and Michael Bizzaco Close You’re going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. ‘Tis the season for the Huludays , after all. While we’ll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month’s selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady , as well as A Haunting in Venice , which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu ? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what’s coming and going. That’s why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We’re here to help you plan your next movie night.
Subscribe to a different platform? Not only do we have a guide to the best shows on Hulu , but we’ve rounded up the best movies on Amazon Prime Video , the best movies on Netflix , and the best movies on Disney+.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Quiz Lady r 2023 A Haunting in Venice pg-13 2023 Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle pg-13 2017 Driven r 2019 Quiz Lady (2023) new r 100m Comedy Awkwafina, Sandra Oh, Will Ferrell Jessica Yu watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Quiz Lady features a unique pairing of Awkwafina and Sandra Oh as sisters Annie and Jenny Yum, respectively. When their mother flees the country to avoid a gambling debt, the struggling Jenny moves back home with her younger sister. While Annie effortlessly answers the questions as she watches a TV game show, Jenny films it and later posts it online where it goes viral.
This attracts the wrong kind of attention to Annie’s talent, as a criminal kidnaps the family dog to blackmail Annie into going on the game show in order to cover her mother’s debt and get their pet back. What Annie doesn’t realize is that Jenny also has other ulterior motives to get her sister on TV.
Read less A Haunting in Venice (2023) new pg-13 104m Mystery, Thriller, Crime Kenneth Branagh, Kyle Allen, Camille Cottin Kenneth Branagh watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Kenneth Branagh’s Hercule Poirot is accustomed to murder mysteries, but less so to ghosts in A Haunting in Venice.
 Just two years after World War II, Poirot is ready to put his life as a detective in the past. However, Poirot just can’t resist the opportunity to unmask a fraud when he is invited to attend a seance held by Joyce Reynolds (Michelle Yeoh).
It doesn’t take Poirot long to figure out how Joyce pulls off her supposedly supernatural tricks. But much to Poirot’s alarm, someone soon tries to murder him before Joyce’s body is discovered. Now, Poirot has to figure out if he is dealing with a conventional murderer, or something more sinister from beyond the grave.
Read less Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle (2017) new pg-13 119m Adventure, Action, Comedy, Fantasy Dwayne Johnson, Kevin Hart, Jack Black Jake Kasdan watch on Hulu watch on Hulu The curse of Jumanji returns for a new generation of characters in Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle.
 Now transformed into a video game, Jumanji entices four teenagers – Spencer Gilpin (Alex Wolff), Anthony “Fridge” Johnson (Ser’Darius Blain), Bethany Walker (Madison Iseman), and Martha Kaply (Morgan Turner) – into playing without fully understanding the consequences of their decision.
Suddenly, the group finds themselves physically transported into the game, with Spencer in the body of Dr. Xander “Smolder” Bravestone (Dwayne Johnson), Fridge as Franklin “Mouse” Finbar (Kevin Hart), Bethany as Professor Sheldon “Shelly” Oberon (Jack Black), and Martha as Ruby Roundhouse ( Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 ‘s Karen Gillan). Each of the kids has only three lives to escape from Jumanji. But first, they have to locate the fifth player in their group.
Read less Driven (2019) new r 113m Thriller, History Jason Sudeikis, Lee Pace, Judy Greer Nick Hamm watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Most movie fans probably know the name DeLorean from Doc Brown’s time machine in Back to the Future.
 But the man behind the cars, John DeLorean (Lee Pace), is a key player in Driven , a film inspired by a true story from DeLorean’s life. In the early ‘80s, DeLorean’s grand plans are crashing and he needs income fast to save his car business.
Enter Jim Hoffman ( Ted Lasso ‘s Jason Sudeikis), a pilot and drug trafficker who recently came under the thumb of the FBI after they caught him in the act. Now an informant answering to Special Agent Benedict Tisa (Corey Stoll), Hoffman ropes DeLorean into an illegal drug scheme that he hopes will pave the way for his own freedom. Yet it won’t be as easy to pull off as Hoffman believes.
Read less No One Will Save You (2023) pg-13 93m Horror, Science Fiction, Thriller Kaitlyn Dever, Elizabeth Kaluev, Zack Duhame Brian Duffield watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Kaitlyn Dever stars in the Hulu original movie No One Will Save You as Brynn, a young woman who lives a solitary existence in large part because she is a pariah in her small town. That’s one of the reasons why Brynn has no one to turn to when an alien invades her home. In the aftermath, Brynn finds no support from her fellow humans, and she discovers just how alone she really is.
No One Will Save You barely has any dialogue at all, but Dever’s expressive and earnest performance carries the entire film. It also goes a long way toward making little gray men scary again, especially when Brynn meets the more horrific aliens.
Read less Doctor Sleep (2019) r 152m Horror, Thriller, Fantasy Ewan McGregor, Kyliegh Curran, Rebecca Ferguson Mike Flanagan watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Doctor Sleep is Stephen King’s sequel to The Shining , and Dan Torrance (Ewan McGregor) just can’t seem to check out of the experiences he had at the Overlook Hotel decades earlier. Dan even literally carries those ghosts in his head as he turns to alcohol to numb his pain. Fortunately, Dan finds redemption as a medical worker in a small town, which helps him get sober.
But Dan’s plan to live a quiet life is upended by Abra Stone (Kyliegh Curran), a young girl who reaches out to Dan with psychic powers that dwarf his own. Because of her abilities, Abra is targeted by a cult that feeds on psychics, and Danny has to find a way to protect her and save himself.
Read less It Chapter Two (2019) r 169m Horror, Fantasy James McAvoy, Jessica Chastain, Isaiah Mustafa Andy Muschietti watch on Hulu watch on Hulu The Stephen King renaissance continues with It: Chapter Two , which once again features Bill Skarsgård as Pennywise the Dancing Clown. When the killer clown stalks innocents in Derry twenty-seven years after the first film, Mike Hanlon (Isaiah Mustafa) summons the remaining members of the Losers Club: Beverly Marsh (Jessica Chastain), Bill Denbrough (James McAvoy), Richie Tozier (Bill Hader), Ben Hanscom (Jay Ryan), and Eddie Kaspbrak (James Ransone).
At first, the Losers don’t have many memories about how they killed the clown. Yet their shared trauma comes back to haunt them when Pennywise turns his attention to the Loser Club. And this time, the Losers aren’t convinced that they can win.
Read less Nightmare Alley (2021) r 150m Crime, Thriller, Drama Bradley Cooper, Rooney Mara, Cate Blanchett Guillermo del Toro watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Despite its name, Nightmare Alley is not a horror story, and also one of director Guillermo del Toro’s most grounded drama to date. Bradley Cooper stars as Stanton “Stan” Carlisle, a con man who has a gift in getting people to believe that he can physically speak to their loved ones who have died.
While this skill gets him out of the carnival, it also sets Stan up for a fall when Judge Kimball (Peter MacNeill), a former skeptic who wants to speak with his dead son. Stan also appears to have met his match with Dr. Lilith Ritter (Cate Blanchett), a con artist who is even more ruthless than he is.
Read less The Banshees of Inisherin (2022) r 114m Drama, Comedy Colin Farrell, Brendan Gleeson, Kerry Condon Martin McDonagh watch on Hulu watch on Hulu There are few things more heartbreaking than when your best friend suddenly decides they don’t like you anymore. Writer and director Martin McDonagh explores this idea in his dark comedy The Banshees of Inisherin.
 Colin Farrell stars as Pádraic Súilleabháin, an ordinary man living on Inisherin, who is absolutely bewildered and hurt when his best friend, Colm Doherty (Brendan Gleeson), abruptly ends their relationship.
Pádraic assumes that he’s somehow offended Colm and bends over backwards to apologize … to no avail. Even the efforts of Pádraic’s sister, Siobhán Súilleabháin (Kerry Condon), fail to reconcile Colm and Pádraic. And soon, Colm threatens to take drastic actions if Pádraic doesn’t stop trying to speak with him.
Read less Bend It Like Beckham (2002) pg-13 112m Comedy, Drama, Romance Parminder Nagra, Keira Knightley, Jonathan Rhys Meyers Gurinder Chadha watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Bend It Like Beckham was one of the most beloved sports comedies of the 2000s, thanks to strong performances by Parminder Nagra and Keira Knightley. Nagra plays Jesminder “Jess” Kaur Bhamra, a young woman of Indian descent living near London who develops a love for soccer despite the disapproval of her traditional Sikh parents.
Regardless, Jess befriends Juliette “Jules” Paxton (Keira Knightley) and joins her local soccer team, which is coached by Joe (Jonathan Rhys Meyers). While Jess hides her extracurricular activities from her family, she also develops romantic feelings for Joe, which may threaten her friendship with Jules.
Read less Phone Booth (2003) r 81m Thriller Colin Farrell, Kiefer Sutherland, Forest Whitaker Joel Schumacher watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Colin Farrell literally spends most of Phone Booth ’s running time trapped inside one, and yet it really works well as a thriller. Farrell plays Stuart “Stu” Shepard, a man who is cheating on his wife, Kelly (Radha Mitchell), with a woman named Pam (Katie Holmes). When Stu answers a call in a phone booth, an enigmatic caller (Kiefer Sutherland) warns Stu that he has to confess his infidelity or he’ll be shot dead.
The Caller quickly proves that his threats are not idle, and as the police blame Stu for the carnage, the Caller tells him that he has to choose between the two women in his life. And whoever he doesn’t choose will be murdered.
Read less Ford v Ferrari (2019) pg-13 153m Drama, Action, History Christian Bale, Matt Damon, Jon Bernthal James Mangold watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Between Wolverine and Indiana Jones movies , director James Mangold tackled the larger than life rivalry between Henry Ford II (Tracy Letts) and Enzo Ferrari (Remo Girone). However, neither man is the central character in Ford v Ferrari.
 Instead, the focus falls on ex-racer turned car designer, Carroll Shelby (Matt Damon), and Ken Miles (Christian Bale), a fiery racer whom Shelby recruits to help him build a Ford that can outrace a Ferrari.
Miles quickly makes enemies inside Ford who threaten to derail the entire operation just to sideline him. But once Miles gets behind the wheel of the car he helped design, he delivers the race of a lifetime.
Read less Bohemian Rhapsody (2018) pg-13 135m Music, Drama, History Rami Malek, Gwilym Lee, Ben Hardy Bryan Singer watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Rami Malek won the Oscar for Best Actor for his performance as Farrokh Bulsara, the man who became Freddie Mercury, the legendary lead singer of Queen.
Bohemian Rhapsody is named after Queen’s most famous song, but this is really Freddie’s story, as well as his rise and fall alongside his bandmates Brian May (Gwilym Lee), Roger Taylor (Ben Hardy), and John Deacon (Joe Mazzello).
On his way to the top, Freddie is engaged to Mary Austin (Lucy Boynton) before he falls in love with Paul Prenter (Allen Leech) and allows him to guide his career. But when Freddie’s bad decisions catch up to him, it’s going to take something tragic to bring Queen back together.
Read less Flamin' Hot (2023) pg-13 99m Comedy, Drama Jesse Garcia, Annie Gonzalez, Dennis Haysbert Eva Longoria watch on Hulu watch on Hulu What do you do when there’s a true story that may not be true? As was famously said in the 1962 Western classic The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance, “when the legend becomes fact, print the legend.” The story of Flamin’ Hot is truly inspirational regardless of whether these events actually played out this way in reality. The film is based on the memoir of Richard Montañez (Jesse Garcia), the man who claims that he created Flamin’ Hot Cheetos. And he didn’t do it alone.
With the support of his wife, Judy Montañez (Annie Gonzalez), and his co-worker, Clarence C. Baker (Dennis Haysbert), Richard rises from the rank of janitor and works up the nerve to pitch his Flamin’ Hot ideas to Frito-Lay executive Roger Enrico (Tony Shalhoub). From there, a snack food legend is born.
Read less Rise of the Planet of the Apes (2011) pg-13 105m Thriller, Action, Drama, Science Fiction James Franco, Andy Serkis, Freida Pinto Rupert Wyatt watch on Hulu watch on Hulu The Planet of the Apes franchise has gone through a few different incarnations, but the modern reboot, Rise of the Planet of the Apes , is a cut above the rest.
Andy Serkis stars as Caesar, a remarkably intelligent chimpanzee who lives with his adoptive father, Dr. William Rodman (James Franco). Will’s attempt to cure Alzheimer’s disease has catastrophic results for the world, but it also greatly enhances the intelligence of apes. And when Caesar is locked away with this fellow apes, he takes the initiative to lead a revolution.
Read less Something in the Dirt (2022) r 116m Science Fiction, Mystery Aaron Moorhead, Justin Benson, Sarah Adina Smith Aaron Moorhead, Justin Benson watch on Hulu watch on Hulu An exciting example of the kind of narrative ingenuity that only a worldwide pandemic can foster, Something in the Dirt is the latest film from writer-director duo Justin Benson and Aaron Moorhead ( The Endless , Synchronic ), and is arguably the most primitively fascinating work of these two collaborators. Shot over the course of a year with a crew of just 12, our story follows Levi and John, apartment-dwelling neighbors who decide to make a documentary about a range of supernatural events occurring in their Los Angeles residence. But as the two men discover that these kinds of extraordinary happenings are taking place all over L.A., their findings lead them to a combative exchange of theories and calculations.
Read less The Valet (2022) pg-13 124m Comedy, Romance Eugenio Derbez, Samara Weaving, Max Greenfield Richard Wong watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less War Dogs (2016) r 114m Comedy, Crime, Drama Miles Teller, Jonah Hill, Ana de Armas Todd Phillips watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Ultrasound (2022) r 103m Science Fiction Vincent Kartheiser, Chelsea Lopez, Breeda Wool Rob Schroeder watch on Hulu watch on Hulu In director Rob Schroeder’s Ultrasound , Mad Men alum Vincent Kartheiser stars as Glen, an unassuming everyman who just so happens to encounter some car trouble on a dark and stormy night. Seeking some help, he knocks on the door of a perfectly kind stranger named Arthur (Bob Stephenson), leading the former down an uncanny rabbit hole of deceit and mind control. Presenting a nail-biter of a story without diving into carnage and other typical screen grabs, Ultrasound does its best work as a quietly curious foray into a world that’s hard to pin down.
Read less The Worst Person in the World (2021) r 128m Drama, Comedy, Romance Renate Reinsve, Anders Danielsen Lie, Herbert Nordrum Joachim Trier watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less The Last Tourist (2021) 84m Documentary Elizabeth Becker, Sangduen Lek Chailert, Costas Christ Tyson Sadler watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Hellraiser (2022) r 121m Horror, Mystery Odessa A'zion, Jamie Clayton, Adam Faison David Bruckner watch on Hulu watch on Hulu It’s about time the world of Hellraiser received some much-needed reimagining. For years now, the franchise has seen sequel after sequel, and while Cenobite fans are always pleased to see Doug Bradley donning his Pinhead garb, the series has certainly run into its fair share of cinematic duds. But director David Bruckner has come along to get the saga on track once more. The 2022 remake stars Odessa A’zion as Riley, an on-the-mend drug addict who comes into the possession of a runic puzzle box — a mysterious device that summons an armada of hellish entities. Led by the Hell Priest (Jamie Clayton), Odessa is plunged into a fight for survival when the demonic visitors begin wreaking havoc in the real world. Bruckner’s Hellraiser reboot may not satisfy all of the saga’s diehards, but when you consider it as a gruesome yet polished homage to Clive Barker’s source novella and first batch of films, the 2022 version more than gets the job done.
Read less I Think We're Alone Now (2018) r 100m Science Fiction, Drama, Mystery Peter Dinklage, Elle Fanning, Paul Giamatti Reed Morano watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Derek DelGaudio's In & Of Itself (2020) pg-13 90m Documentary Derek DelGaudio, Hal Schulman, Marina Abramović Frank Oz watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less This Mountain Life (2018) 77m Documentary Simon Beck, Martina Halik, Tania Halik Grant Baldwin watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Dinner in America (2022) r 106m Comedy, Drama, Music Kyle Gallner, Emily Skeggs, Pat Healy Adam Rehmeier watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Pig (2021) r 91m Drama, Thriller Nicolas Cage, Alex Wolff, Adam Arkin Michael Sarnoski watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less The Bob's Burgers Movie (2022) 102m Animation, Adventure, Comedy H. Jon Benjamin, Kristen Schaal, John Roberts Loren Bouchard, Bernard Derriman watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Prey (2022) r 100m Science Fiction, Action, Thriller, Horror Amber Midthunder, Dakota Beavers, Dane DiLiegro Dan Trachtenberg watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Flee (2021) pg-13 89m Documentary, Animation Amin Nawabi, Daniel Karimyar, Fardin Mijdzadeh Jonas Poher Rasmussen watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Apollo 11 (2019) g 93m Documentary, History Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, Michael Collins Todd Douglas Miller watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Sundown (2022) r 82m Drama Tim Roth, Charlotte Gainsbourg, Iazua Larios Michel Franco watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Three Identical Strangers (2018) pg-13 97m Documentary David Kellman, Robert Shafran, Lawrence Wright Tim Wardle watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Death on the Nile (2022) pg-13 127m Crime, Drama, Mystery, Thriller Kenneth Branagh, Gal Gadot, Armie Hammer Kenneth Branagh watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Fresh (2022) r 114m Horror, Thriller Daisy Edgar-Jones, Sebastian Stan, Jonica T. Gibbs Mimi Cave watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Spencer (2021) r 117m Drama Kristen Stewart, Jack Farthing, Sally Hawkins Pablo Larraín watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less No Exit (2022) r 96m Horror, Thriller Havana Rose Liu, Danny Ramirez, Dennis Haysbert Damien Power watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Deep Water (2022) r 116m Drama, Mystery, Thriller Ben Affleck, Ana de Armas, Grace Jenkins Adrian Lyne watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less In the Earth (2021) r 107m Horror, Science Fiction, Thriller Joel Fry, Ellora Torchia, Hayley Squires Ben Wheatley watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Best shows on Hulu Best movies on Amazon Best movies on Disney+ Best movies on HBO Max Best movies on Netflix The Obituary of Tunde Johnson (2019) r 104m Drama, Thriller Steven Silver, Spencer Neville, Nicola Peltz Ali LeRoi watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less The Vigil (2020) pg-13 88m Horror, Thriller, Mystery Dave Davis, Lynn Cohen, Menashe Lustig Keith Thomas watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Wander Darkly (2020) r 97m Romance, Drama Sienna Miller, Diego Luna, Beth Grant Tara Miele watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Another Round (2020) 117m Comedy, Drama Mads Mikkelsen, Thomas Bo Larsen, Lars Ranthe Thomas Vinterberg watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Editors' Recommendations The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now The best comedies on Netflix right now Best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max (HBO), and more Best Products Hulu Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment When you need to keep the kids occupied for a while, it's helpful to know the best kids movies on Netflix right now.
Netflix has an enormous library of kid-friendly content, including a host of original choose-your-own-adventure stories, but it's natural as a parent to want to know what your kids is watching. So, to help you find something quickly, we keep tabs on the collection every month and surface the best options here.
Entertainment There's nothing better than a long holiday weekend to catch up on your favorite films on Netflix. This weekend has a particularly strong lineup that includes the streaming debut of David Fincher's The Killer, which was briefly in theaters last month. Additionally, the horror title, Insidious: The Red Door, has some post-Halloween scares, while Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse remains one of the best options for movie lovers of all ages.
Want to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Every week on Friday, we go over the newly available films to update our list of the best movies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment This week is a particularly memorable one for Netflix's original series with two big premieres. The Crown – the British drama that has been one of the most popular shows on Netflix since its premiere in 2016 – is heading towards the finish line with the premiere of its sixth and final season. Additionally, the cult classic film and comic, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, is getting a new anime series, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off.
With the Thanksgiving holiday coming next week, there's never been a better time to catch up on what's new on Netflix. You may even need the breather because it's been a busy year for Netflix. Don't worry, our weekly update of the best shows on Netflix will always be updated on Fridays to help you plan your weekend binge.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
