Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Surface Laptop Studio 2 specs: which should you buy? By Jon Martindale Close The Surface Laptop Studio 2 has now been officially announced at Microsoft’s September 2023 Surface event , and it has some really exciting specifications and features that may well make it one of our favorite 2-in-1 laptops of this year. But there are lots of options to pick from and a wide range of possible prices for this next-gen laptop. Do you pick the entry-level model with its affordable pricing and more modest hardware? Or go for something more impressive with a higher price tag? Surface Laptop Studio 2 specs Which Surface Laptop Studio 2 should you buy? It all depends on what you want to do with it. Let’s take a look at the difference Surface Laptop Studio 2 configurations, and which ones are the best to consider. If you want an overview on if you should buy the laptop at all, make sure to read our Surface Laptop Studio 2 review.
Microsoft / Microsoft Surface Laptop Studio 2 specs The Surface Laptop Studio 2, like its predecessor, comes in a few different configurations and models but is divided into Consumer and Commercial sectors. Each branch of the Surface Laptop Studio 2 has its own CPU, but within them, you can select from various memory and storage configurations, and crucially for those wanting to play games or dabble in some 3D rendering, a choice of GPUs.
Consumer Commercial CPU Intel Core i7-13700H Intel Core i7-13800H RAM 16GB, 32GB, or 64GB LPDDR5X 16GB, 32GB, or 64GB LPDDR5X Storage 512GB, 1TB, or 2TB 512GB, 1TB, or 2TB Graphics Intel Iris Xe, Nvidia RTX 4050, Nvidia RTX 4060, Nvidia RTX 2000 Intel Iris Xe, Nvidia RTX 4050, Nvidia RTX 4060, Nvidia RTX 2000 Best 2-in-1 laptop deals: Turn your laptop into a tablet for $198 Should you buy the Surface Laptop Studio or wait for the Surface Laptop Studio 2? Surface Laptop Go 3 specs: what’s the best configuration? Every version of the Surface Laptop Studio 2 comes with a 14.4-inch, 2400 x 1600 touchscreen with a 3:2 aspect ratio. They all maintain the same battery size, but the battery life is dependent on which hardware you pick. Models with higher-end graphics and SSDs can expect only up to 16 hours, while the model with Intel Xe graphics and a smaller SSD can expect up to 19 hours of battery life. Each model also comes with Intel’s Gen3 Movidius 3700VC VPU AI Accelerator, for enhancing AI-driven tasks.
One additional difference between consumer and commercial models of this laptop is that the latter has a more robust repair and replace program. Many of the components can be replaced, including the motherboard, charging port, and audio jack, among many others. Microsoft has yet to clarify the extent of the repair program available for general consumers.
Pricing for the entry-level model with the Core i7-13700H, 16GB of RAM , Iris Xe graphics, and 512GB of storage, starts at $1,999.
Jacob Roach / DigitalTrends Which Surface Laptop Studio 2 should you buy? The right Surface Laptop Studio 2 for you is going to be the one that can perform the tasks you need as fast as possible, whilst staying within your budget. If you just need a lightweight, convertible laptop, with great performance, and long battery life for everyday web browsing and emails, then the base configuration Surface Laptop Studio 2 with the 13700H CPU, 16GB of RAM, and Intel Iris Xe graphics is going to be your best bet. It has all the performance you need for casual use and will look great whether you’re working, or relaxing with a movie in the evening.
For power users, however, the additional performance of the higher-end models is well worth considering. Upgrading to 32GB or even 64GB of RAM will open up a lot of additional performance in demanding tasks like video and photo editing, while upgrading the graphics to an RTX 4050 or even RTX 4060 will make the Surface Laptop Studio 2 perform far better in video transcoding, 3D rendering, and gaming.
Additional storage space is always handy, though since these drives can be swapped out, you can always buy the cheaper storage option now, and upgrade to a bigger SSD down the line.
The Core i7-13800H has around 10% extra multi-threaded performance, which won’t make a huge difference to business users, but the additional performance is still useful. The real kicker with the Commercial laptop is the repair program, though, which looks far more expansive than the one for consumers. That should be enough for more enterprises to opt for that model over the consumer version, even at an increased cost.
Don’t want to spend that much? Microsoft’s new Surface Laptop Go 3 is more affordable , even if it’s less so than its predecessor.
Editors' Recommendations This sleeper Asus laptop is faster and cheaper than Microsoft’s Surface Laptop Go 3 Surface Laptop Go 3 vs. Surface Pro 7+: is it an upgrade? Surface Pro 10: here’s what to expect from the next generation Can you use the Surface Pen with the Surface Laptop Studio 2? Microsoft’s Surface Laptop Go 3 is a more capable budget laptop Laptops Microsoft Microsoft Events Computing In what some are calling the "end of an era," Microsoft revealed that long-time Surface and Windows leader, Panos Panay, would be leaving the company. The announcement comes just days before Microsoft's Surface and AI event on September 21, where the company is expected to reveal new devices like the Surface Laptop Studio 2.
Panay is a mainstay at Microsoft events, as well as the champion of Surface devices during Microsoft's presentations. Microsoft says the former executive won't be at the event on Thursday, according to Tom Warren.
Computing We’re just a week away from Microsoft’s upcoming Surface event, yet a plethora of renders and information have just leaked out, spilling the beans on a new Surface Laptop Studio 2, updates to the Surface Laptop Go 3, and an all-new Surface Go 4.
According to the German website WinFuture (via OnMSFT), this information was gleaned from third-party retailers who have already been provided with official data from Microsoft. It’s a slip-up Microsoft would rather have avoided so close to launch day.
Computing When it comes to laptops, it seems like there's always something new and exciting over the horizon. In the case of the Microsoft Surface Pro line, that's literally the case right now, with the Surface Pro 10 almost certainly set to debut at the end of September. But what do you do if you need another 2-in-1 laptop right now? Should you wait a little longer for the Surface Pro 10, or get a Surface Pro 9 instead? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
