Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) By Blair Marnell , Michael Bizzaco and Rick Marshall Close November has been a great month for movies at Netflix , with the premiere of David Fincher’s The Killer , and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse.
 This week, the new additions include The Impossible , a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix.
 For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There’s only one holiday weekend left in November, so what’s the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix ? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Looking for something else? We’ve also rounded up the best shows on Netflix , the best movies on Hulu , the best movies on Amazon Prime , and the best movies on Disney+.
 For Netflix fans, check out the 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Watching from abroad? Use a Netflix VPN to access your country’s catalog from anywhere in the world. Want to watch on the go? We can show you how to download movies on Netflix.
Editor’s Pick The Impossible (2012) new pg-13 113m Adventure, Drama, Thriller Naomi Watts, Ewan McGregor, Tom Holland J. A. Bayona watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The Impossible is rising to the top on the Netflix movie chart, and not just because it’s the film debut of MCU Spider-Man actor Tom Holland. It’s also a harrowing tale of survival that is based on a true story. During the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, Henry (Ewan McGregor) and Maria Bennett (Naomi Watts) are on vacation alongside their family when Thailand is struck by a massive wave.
In the aftermath, Maria is severely injured and left with her oldest son, Lucas (Holland), while Henry finds his two other sons in a separate location. With so many injured and dead, the Bennett family will need a few small miracles to make it through as the Thai people come together in the face of tragedy.
Read less Minions (2015) new pg 91m Family, Animation, Adventure, Comedy Sandra Bullock, Jon Hamm, Michael Keaton Kyle Balda, Pierre Coffin watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Before The Rise of Gru and Despicable Me , Minions chronicles the origins of the dim-witted yellow henchmen who live only to serve the most evil person alive. In 1968, that person was Scarlet Overkill (Sandra Bullock), the world’s first female supervillain.
The three primary Minions, Kevin, Stuart, and Bob (all three of whom are voiced by Pierre Coffin), are genuinely eager to please Scarlet and help her seize the throne of England. However, their incompetence and honest mistakes accidentally make Scarlet their nemesis even when they really want her to succeed.
Read less The Killer (2023) new r 118m Crime, Thriller Michael Fassbender, Tilda Swinton, Charles Parnell David Fincher watch on Netflix watch on Netflix David Fincher’s latest thriller, The Killer , shows us that the life of a professional assassin, as played by Michael Fassbender, can be pretty mundane and boring … right up until he accidentally misses his target. From that point on, the assassin’s life is anything but boring. And suddenly, even his contact, Hodges (Charles Parnell), is ghosting him.
Not even fleeing the country is enough for the assassin to evade an international manhunt, as well as two rival assassins, The Expert (Tilda Swinton) and The Brute (Sala Baker), who have been hired to take him out.
Read less Insidious: The Red Door (2023) new pg-13 107m Horror, Mystery, Thriller Ty Simpkins, Patrick Wilson, Rose Byrne Patrick Wilson watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Insidious: The Red Door marks Patrick Wilson’s debut as a director, while also reuniting most of the original cast for a new story. A decade after their last run-in with the supernatural, neither Josh Lambert (Wilson), nor his son, Dalton (Ty Simpkins), remember their experiences in The Further, or the demons that tormented them. It was their choice, but that time in their lives has come back to haunt them.
Although Josh is now divorced from Renai (Rose Byrne), he attempts to reconnect with Dalton while taking him to college. Unfortunately for both father and son, the demons they’ve run from have not forgotten them. And if the Lamberts don’t come together to face this evil, then they may both fall victim to it again.
Read less Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse (2023) new pg-13 140m Animation, Action, Adventure Shameik Moore, Hailee Steinfeld, Jason Schwartzman Joaquim Dos Santos, Justin K. Thompson, Kemp Powers watch on Netflix watch on Netflix You could call Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse “amazing, spectacular,” or “sensational” and it would still undersell just how terrific this movie is. Somehow, the team behind the Oscar-winning Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse topped themselves with an even more thrilling sequel that reunites Miles Morales (Shameik Moore) and Gwen Stacy (Hailee Steinfeld).
Unfortunately for the would-be couple, it’s not a happy reunion. Gwen is keeping secrets from Miles while running from a difficult family situation at home. As for Miles himself, he’s inadvertently created a new nemesis: The Spot (Jason Schwartzman). Miles has also been targeted by Miguel O’Hara (Oscar Isaac), the Spider-Man of the year 2099. And if Miles can’t get home to his own world, then his life will never be the same.
Read less Godzilla vs. Kong (2021) new pg-13 114m Action, Science Fiction, Thriller Alexander Skarsgård, Millie Bobby Brown, Rebecca Hall Adam Wingard watch on Netflix watch on Netflix For the first time in six decades, the King of the Monsters and the Eighth Wonder of the World get their rematch in Godzilla vs. Kong.
 In this MonsterVerse sequel, Dr. Nathan Lind (Alexander Skarsgård) is convinced by Dr. Ilene Andrews (Rebecca Hall) to accompany her on an expedition to the Hollow Earth with King Kong himself as their guide. Because Kong has formed a bond with Andrews’ adopted daughter, Jia (Kaylee Hottle), he is relatively docile around the humans.
Meanwhile, Godzilla is attacking science facilities around the world for no apparent reason. And once Godzilla senses Kong’s presence, he gets even more aggressive. There’s only room for one king in this world, even if Godzilla and Kong have a mutual foe.
Read less Pain Hustlers (2023) r 122m Drama, Crime Emily Blunt, Chris Evans, Catherine O'Hara David Yates watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Frequent Harry Potter director David Yates is about as far as you can possibly go from the Wizarding World in Netflix’s new crime drama, Pain Hustlers.
 Emily Blunt, Chris Evans, and Andy Garcia provide the star power for this adaptation of Evan Hughes’ novel, which casts Blunt as a high school dropout named Liza Drake.
With few legitimate prospects, Liza finds herself working for a pharmaceutical start-up out of a strip mall. But it doesn’t take long for Liza to find herself immersed in a criminal conspiracy that could ultimately send her to jail or worse.
Read less No Hard Feelings (2023) r 104m Comedy, Romance Jennifer Lawrence, Andrew Barth Feldman, Laura Benanti Gene Stupnitsky watch on Netflix watch on Netflix No Hard Feelings was Jennifer Lawrence’s comeback movie after spending a few years away from the big screen. And she certainly makes a memorable impression as Maddie Barker, a woman who is on the verge of losing her home and her car over her money problems.
That’s why Maddie accepts a bizarre job from Laird (Matthew Broderick) and Allison Becker (Laura Benanti). If Maddie can seduce their son, Percy Becker (Andrew Barth Feldman), and bring him out of his shell before he goes off to college then she can save herself from her financial black hole. Unfortunately for Maddie, Percy may be undatable and he is nearly immune to her obvious charms.
Read less Silver Linings Playbook (2012) r 122m Drama, Comedy, Romance Bradley Cooper, Jennifer Lawrence, Robert De Niro David O. Russell watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Bradley Cooper’s Pat Solitano Jr. is a man who wants to see the silver linings in life. That’s not so easy in Silver Linings Playbook , since Pat just got out of the mental hospital after an eight-month stint that was set off when he caught his wife, Nikki (Brea Bee), with another man. The only thing Pat wants is to rebuild his life and win Nikki back.
Tiffany Maxwell (Jennifer Lawrence) is the wildcard in Pat’s life. She is also battling mental problems following the death of her husband. But Tiffany’s plan to feel better about her life involves recruiting Pat as her partner in a dancing competition. In return, Tiffany offers to help Pat reconcile with Nikki, even though she is clearly feeling her own attraction to him. This is a wonderful movie, and you’ll see why Lawrence took home the Oscar for Best Actress after watching it.
Read less Get Out (2017) r 104m Mystery, Thriller, Horror Daniel Kaluuya, Allison Williams, Bradley Whitford Jordan Peele watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Jordan Peele reinvented his career with Get Out , a film he wrote and directed. Daniel Kaluuya stars as Chris Washington, a Black man who is dating Rose Armitage (Allison Williams), a white woman with wealthy parents. While visiting Rose’s parents, Dean (Bradley Whitford) and Missy Armitage (Catherine Keener), in Upstate New York, Chris is unnerved by the strange way he is received and examined by the other guests.
The title of the film is uttered by the only other Black man there, Logan King (LaKeith Stanfield), when he briefly attacks Chris. And it’s only later that Chris realizes that “get out” wasn’t said out of anger. It was a warning, and it may already be too late for Chris.
Read less Fair Play (2023) r 113m Thriller, Drama Phoebe Dynevor, Alden Ehrenreich, Eddie Marsan Chloe Domont watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Luke (Alden Ehrenreich) and Emily (Phoebe Dynevor) are secret lovers who work for a hedge fund in Fair Play.
 Their relationship is against company policy, which is why they’ve hidden it. However, their storybook romance starts to shatter when Luke believes that he’s getting a promotion that ultimately goes to Emily.
While Luke is initially supportive of Emily’s success, he soon displays his resentment both at home and at work. As Luke’s jealousy rises, he becomes more and more unstable until Emily can no longer be sure that she’s safe with the man she loves.
Read less Nowhere (2023) r 109m Thriller, Drama Anna Castillo, Tamar Novas, Irina Bravo Albert Pintó watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Nowhere takes place in the near future, as a married couple, Mia (Anna Castillo) and Nico (Tamar Novas) attempt to escape from a fascist regime in their native Spain before their second child is born. However, a tragic turn of events leaves Mia on her own in a cargo container that is slowly sinking in the middle of the ocean with no hope of rescue in sight.
With no other options, Mia must improvise with the materials on hand in the container as she prepares to give birth. The most important thing for Mia is to ensure that her daughter survives, even if she has to sacrifice herself to make that happen.
Read less Dune (2021) pg-13 155m Science Fiction, Adventure Timothée Chalamet, Rebecca Ferguson, Oscar Isaac Denis Villeneuve watch on Netflix watch on Netflix If the timing had worked out better, Netflix would be adding Dune just in time for the sequel to hit theaters next month. But since the actors strike is still on, Dune: Part Two will have to wait until 2024. The good news is that Dune ’s premiere on Netflix is attracting even more fans to see Frank Herbert’s epic sci-fi novel fully realized on screen.
On Arrakis, the most important world in the Galactic Empire, Duke Leto Atreides (Oscar Isaac) has been given the near-impossible task of making peace with the native Fremen while maintaining the spice flow that allows humanity to travel in space. But when House Atreides is betrayed by the emperor and delivered to their rivals House Harkonnen, Leto’s son, Paul Atreides (Timothée Chalamet), and his mother, Lady Jessica (Rebecca Ferguson), are forced to flee for their lives into the unforgiving deserts of Dune.
Read less Reptile (2023) r 136m Crime, Drama, Thriller Benicio del Toro, Justin Timberlake, Alicia Silverstone Grant Singer watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Benicio del Toro headlines Reptile , an intense crime thriller that never lets the audience get too comfortable with its main character, Detective Tom Nichols (del Toro). In the film, a young woman named Summer (Matilda Lutz) has been brutally murdered, and her body was discovered by her boyfriend, Will Grady (Justin Timberlake). And it seems like there are several men in Summer’s life who could have meant her harm, including Grady himself.
As he is drawn further into the investigation, Nichols shares some of the case details with his wife, Judy (Alicia Silverstone). But even Nichols’ relationship with Judy may not be what it seems as he is forced to reexamine his own life while looking for the answers that could bring a killer to justice.
Read less The Wolf of Wall Street (2013) r 180m Crime, Drama, Comedy Leonardo DiCaprio, Jonah Hill, Margot Robbie Martin Scorsese watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Like Martin Scorsese’s other crime epics, the popular The Wolf of Wall Street takes its inspiration from a real person: Jordan Belfort, as played by Leonardo DiCaprio in the film. After the stock market crash of 1987, Belfort uses his incredible salesmanship to make himself a fortune by selling people stock that he artificially inflated. He then leaves his clients holding worthless shares.
Belfort shares his ill-gotten gains with his friend and business partner, Donnie Azoff (Jonah Hill), as well as his wife, Teresa Petrillo (Cristin Milioti), and his mistress, Naomi Lapaglia (Margot Robbie). Belfort demonstrates so little self-control with his barely legal financial moves and his excessive drug use that he comes under the scrutiny of FBI Agent Patrick Denham (Kyle Chandler).
Read less Dredd (2012) r 95m Action, Science Fiction Karl Urban, Olivia Thirlby, Lena Headey Pete Travis watch on Netflix watch on Netflix In theory, Dredd is everything that comic book fans say they want from an adaptation. It takes the source material seriously, the action is R-rated, and it never descends into farce. Unfortunately, the second adaption of Judge Dredd wasn’t any more successful than the Sylvester Stallone film from 1995.
Having said that, Dredd is a fantastic action flick with great performances by the two leads, Karl Urban and Olivia Thirlby. In the film, Dredd (Urban) is on a routine evaluation with rookie Judge Cassandra Anderson (Thirlby) when they cross the dangerous crime lord Madeline “Ma-Ma” Madrigal (Lena Headey). And before the Judges can call in for backup, Ma-Ma traps them in a 200-story apartment complex filled with criminals who are out to kill them.
Read less Don't Worry Darling (2022) r 123m Thriller, Mystery, Drama, Science Fiction Florence Pugh, Harry Styles, Chris Pine Olivia Wilde watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Olivia Wilde’s Don’t Worry Darling was largely overshadowed by behind-the-scenes drama and intrigue. But the finished film is an intriguing thriller that drops viewers in Victory, California, a small town where it seems like the 1950s never came to an end. Jack (Harry Styles), Dean (Nick Kroll), Peter (Asif Ali), and the rest of the husbands spend their days working on a secretive project with Frank (Chris Pine). Meanwhile, their wives — Alice (Florence Pugh), Bunny (Wilde), and Margaret (KiKi Layne) – play happy homemakers.
But in Alice’s case, “happy” may no longer be the operative word. The longer she stays in Victory, the more Alice comes to question the things in her life that no longer make sense. And she may not like the answers that she finds.
Read less Love Again (2023) pg-13 104m Romance, Drama, Comedy Priyanka Chopra Jonas, Sam Heughan, Céline Dion Jim Strouse watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Love Again had, shall we say, a very short stay in theaters after it was eviscerated by critics. And yet its high audience scores must not have been an illusion because Love Again has raced to the top of Netflix’s movie list in less than a week. Priyanka Chopra-Jonas stars as Mira Ray, a woman who is mourning the sudden death of her true love, John (Arinzé Kene). Even two years later, Mira is pouring her heart out in one-sided texts to John’s old phone number.
Rob Burns (Sam Heughan) is the man who currently has John’s number, and he falls hard for Mira sight unseen after reading her texts. With the aid of some light cyberstalking and Celine Dion (yes, the actual Celine Dion, who plays herself), Rob finds a way to meet Mira and court her. But he’s still keeping his big secret from Mira long after it may destroy anything between them.
Read less Big George Foreman (2023) pg-13 129m History, Drama Khris Davis, Forest Whitaker, Sullivan Jones George Tillman, Jr.
watch on Netflix watch on Netflix During the 1990s, George Foreman shocked the boxing world by becoming the oldest world champion nearly two decades after he had lost the title.
Big George Foreman finally gives the legendary boxer his due with a biopic that chronicles his life story, from living in poverty to Olympic gold and an unmatched career in the ring.
Khris Davis headlines the movie as George Foreman, and the story largely focuses on Foreman’s brush with death and his subsequent reinvention as a devout minister. But after 10 years out of the ring, Foreman begins an unlikely comeback that cemented his place in boxing history.
Read less You Are So Not Invited to My Bat Mitzvah (2023) 103m Comedy Sunny Sandler, Samantha Lorraine, Idina Menzel Sammi Cohen watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Adam Sandler produced and co-stars in the new Netflix comedy You Are So Not Invited To My Bat Mitzvah.
 However, Sandler only has a supporting role as Danny Friedman, the father of Stacy Friedman (Sunny Sandler). Stacy and her BFF, Lydia Rodriguez Katz (Samantha Lorraine), are in the middle of planning their epic Bat Mitzvahs when someone comes between them.
The person in question is Andy Goldfarb (Dylan Hoffman), one of the most popular boys in school. Both Stacy and Lydia want to romantically pursue Andy, and it puts such a strain on their relationship that their friendship may not be able to survive. But is a high school crush really worth throwing away years of friendship? Read less Heart of Stone (2023) pg-13 122m Thriller, Action Gal Gadot, Jamie Dornan, Alia Bhatt Tom Harper watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Fatale (2020) r 102m Drama, Thriller Michael Ealy, Hilary Swank, Mike Colter Deon Taylor watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Fatale starts out with some similarities to Fatal Attraction , but Hilary Swank’s Val Quinlan takes her obsession even further because her agenda only partially includes Derrick Tyler (Michael Ealy), the married man she seduces. Derrick has been having problems with his marriage to Tracie (Damaris Lewis) and his best friend, Rafe Grimes (Mike Colter).
When Val intrudes upon Derrick’s life after their one-night stand, it becomes clear that she could easily expose his infidelity. But there’s something that Val wants even more than a new lover, and she’s willing to kill to get it.
Read less Happiness for Beginners (2023) 103m Romance, Adventure, Comedy, Drama Ellie Kemper, Luke Grimes, Nico Santos Vicky Wight watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Writer and director Vicky Wight adapted Katherine Center’s novel, Happiness for Beginners , which stars Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt ’s Ellie Kemper as Helen, a recent divorcée who doesn’t really know what happiness is at this point in her life. That’s why Helen embarks on a survivalist trip on the Appalachian Trail that caters to beginners. Helen’s looking for something that she can’t quite define.
What she finds is Jake (Luke Grimes), a younger man she has slightly known for years through her brother, Duncan (Alexander Koch). Although Helen is initially at odds with Jake, she can’t deny their growing connection even as other people in their lives may keep them apart.
Read less They Cloned Tyrone (2023) r 122m Science Fiction, Comedy, Mystery John Boyega, Teyonah Parris, Jamie Foxx Juel Taylor watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Netflix has no shortage of star power in its new sci-fi comedy, They Cloned Tyrone.
 John Boyega, WandaVision ‘s Teyonah Parris , and Jamie Foxx headline the ’70s-era Blaxploitation throwback, and they give this film its bite. Boyega plays Fontaine, a local crime enforcer who gets gunned down before the neighborhood pimp, Slick Charles (Foxx).
At least that’s what Slick Charles believes happened, but he’s clearly shaken when Tyrone (Boyega) reappears to take Fontaine’s place. With the help of Slick Charles and his top prostitute, Yo-Yo (Parris), this trio is going to unravel the truth about Tyrone or die trying. Although death is definitely not their preferred outcome.
Read less Puss in Boots: The Last Wish (2022) pg 103m Animation, Family, Fantasy, Adventure, Comedy Antonio Banderas, Salma Hayek Pinault, Harvey Guillén Joel Crawford watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Puss in Boots: The Last Wish is the second installment of this Shrek spinoff series, and it opens with the title hero facing the greatest crisis of his heroic career. Puss in Boots ( Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny ‘s Antonio Banderas) has been able to live fearlessly because of his nine lives. But once Puss is down to his last life, he suddenly finds himself gripped by insecurity and even fear.
The only recourse for Puss is to find a legendary wishing star to restore his lost lives, which reunites him with his ex-fiancée, Kitty Softpaws (Salma Hayek Pinault), who has her own wish to make. Unfortunately for them, they aren’t the only ones after the wishing star. And Puss will have to put his last life on the line before all is said and done.
Read less The Mule (2018) r 116m Crime, Drama, Thriller Clint Eastwood, Bradley Cooper, Laurence Fishburne Clint Eastwood watch on Netflix watch on Netflix As a director, Clint Eastwood tends to come back multiple times to the best actor he knows: himself. Such is the case with The Mule , one of Eastwood’s most recent films. Within the movie, Eastwood plays Earl Stone, a law-abiding elderly man who is an extremely unlikely candidate to be a successful drug mule. If the cartel had an employee of the month award, then Earl would have had it locked up.
However, Earl learns the hard way that he is not a “friend” of the cartel, especially when Gustavo (Clifton Collins Jr.) seizes control of the organization. Earl also faces additional pressure when Colin Bates ( Bradley Cooper ) and the rest of the DEA agents begin to close in on him.
Read less Extraction 2 (2023) r 123m Action, Thriller Chris Hemsworth, Rudhraksh Jaiswal, Golshifteh Farahani Sam Hargrave watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Surprise! Chris Hemsworth’s Tyler Rake survived the events of Extraction , and he’s back in the field in Extraction 2.
 No one could ever say that Netflix skimped on the action in this film, which has even more ambitious battle scenes than the original. Within the sequel, Tyler has a personal stake in rescuing his former sister-in-law, Ketevan (Tinatin Dalakishvili) and her children Sandro (Andro Japaridzo) and Nina (Mariami Kovziashvili), from Ketevan’s deadly husband, Davit (Torniko Bziava).
Unfortunately for Tyler and his team, their actions have earned them the enmity of Davit’s brother, Zurab (Torniko Gogrichiani). And Zurab will go to great lengths to get his revenge.
Read less The Son (2022) pg-13 123m Drama Hugh Jackman, Zen McGrath, Vanessa Kirby Florian Zeller watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Hugh Jackman, the once and future Wolverine, headlines the drama The Son as Peter Miller, a middle-aged man who is attempting to move past his tortured relationship with his father, Anthony Miller (Anthony Hopkins), by raising a new child with his second wife, Beth (Vanessa Kirby).
However, Peter already has a son named Nicholas (Zen McGrath) from his first wife, Kate Miller (Laura Dern), who needs his help. And while Peter is willing to let Nicholas live with him and his new family, the vast emotional gap between this father and son threatens to permanently rupture their connection.
Read less Missing (2023) pg-13 111m Thriller, Mystery Storm Reid, Joaquim de Almeida, Ken Leung Nicholas D. Johnson, Will Merrick watch on Netflix watch on Netflix In the early 2000s, found footage flicks were all the rage for horror titles. Now, we’re seeing the emergence of screenlife thrillers like Missing , which take place largely with the main character behind a computer for most of the film. But at least this story knows when to leave the computer behind.
Storm Reid stars as June Allen, a teenage girl who remains at home in Los Angeles when her mother, Grace (Nia Long), goes off on a South American vacation with her new boyfriend, Kevin (Ken Leung). But when Grace goes missing, June is forced to use her computer skills to start her own search for her mother, with an assist from Javier (Joaquim de Almeida), a Colombian man who can act as her surrogate and go places that June can not.
Read less The Mother (2023) r 115m Action, Thriller Jennifer Lopez, Joseph Fiennes, Omari Hardwick Niki Caro watch on Netflix watch on Netflix It might be a bit late in her career for Jennifer Lopez to jump back into action films, but if it worked for Liam Neeson, then it can work for J-Lo.
The Mother casts Lopez as an unnamed assassin with a particular set of skills, none of which are particularly useful when it comes to being a parent.
But when the Mother learns that the daughter she gave up, Zoe (Lucy Paez), is in danger from her enemies, she drops everything in an attempt to save her from an old foe, Adrian Lovell (Joseph Fiennes). And nothing Lovell puts in the Mother’s way can stop her for long.
Read less Whitney Houston: I Wanna Dance with Somebody (2022) pg-13 144m Music, History, Drama Naomi Ackie, Ashton Sanders, Stanley Tucci Kasi Lemmons watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The story of Whitney Houston is both a triumph and a tragedy. The late singer rose from obscurity to become one of the most famous women in the world, only to die suddenly at 48 years old.
Whitney Houston: I Wanna Dance With Somebody doesn’t attempt to sugarcoat Houston’s history, as it follows her meteoric rise and equally epic fall.
In the film, Whitney (Naomi Ackie) is supported by her friend-turned-lover Robyn Crawford (Nafessa Williams) before hitting the music industry like a tidal wave. As Whitney’s fame grows, she marries Bobby Brown (Ashton Sanders) and descends into drug addiction that threatens her career and even her life. And yet it’s impossible not to root for Whitney to pull herself out of that spiral.
Read less Chupa (2023) pg 95m Adventure, Fantasy, Family Demián Bichir, Evan Whitten, Christian Slater Jonás Cuarón watch on Netflix watch on Netflix If you’ve ever heard of the legend of the chupacabra , then you know that these goat-sucking fiends aren’t exactly cuddly. At least that’s what we thought before Chupa.
 In this charming (and family-friendly) adventure, young Alex (Evan Whitten) goes to Mexico to visit his family in the wake of his father’s death.
Soon enough, Alex finds a lost chupacabra cub that he takes in and nurtures. Meanwhile, an American scientist, Richard Quinn (Christian Slater), will stop at nothing to find the cub and its mother, and somehow, Alex must find a way to protect his new friend.
Read less The Magician's Elephant (2023) pg 99m Adventure, Animation, Family, Fantasy Noah Jupe, Mandy Patinkin, Natasia Demetriou Wendy Rogers watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Netflix just took home the Oscar for Best Animated feature for Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio , and it’s already got another strong animated flick out this week.
The Magician’s Elephant adapts Kate DiCamillo’s novel of the same name, and it tells the story of a young orphan named Peter (Noah Jupe). Peter’s only wish in life is to find his missing sister, Adele (Pixie Davies), Through a fortune teller, Peter is told that he has to find a Magician (Benedict Wong) who will summon an elephant.
Incredibly, the prophecy comes true. But before the elephant can lead Peter to his sister, he is forced to perform three impossible tasks. And the attempt will change Peter’s life forever.
Read less Luther: The Fallen Sun (2023) r 129m Crime, Drama Idris Elba, Dermot Crowley, Cynthia Erivo Jamie Payne watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Idris Elba’s John Luther returns in the Netflix original film Luther: The Fallen Sun.
 And right off the bat, Luther is tossed in jail for everything illegal he did in the Luther TV series. Luther’s incarceration was engineered by his current adversary, David Robey (Andy Serkis), and it demonstrates just how much Robey fears the disgraced detective.
However, Luther eventually escapes from prison to go after Robey and bring him down for good. Unfortunately for Luther, his former colleagues on the police force are also hunting for him.
Read less The Summit of the Gods (2021) 95m Animation, Adventure, Mystery Éric Herson-Macarel, Damien Boisseau, Elisabeth Ventura Patrick Imbert watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Munich: The Edge of War (2022) 129m Drama, History George MacKay, Jannis Niewöhner, Jeremy Irons Christian Schwochow watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Your Place or Mine (2023) 109m Comedy, Romance Reese Witherspoon, Ashton Kutcher, Jesse Williams Aline Brosh McKenna watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Sea Beast (2022) 115m Animation, Adventure, Family, Fantasy Karl Urban, Zaris-Angel Hator, Jared Harris Chris Williams watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Enola Holmes (2020) 123m Action, Adventure, Mystery, Comedy, Crime Millie Bobby Brown, Henry Cavill, Sam Claflin Harry Bradbeer watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Roald Dahl's Matilda the Musical (2022) 117m Family, Comedy, Fantasy Alisha Weir, Emma Thompson, Lashana Lynch Matthew Warchus watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Ballad of Buster Scruggs (2018) 132m Western, Comedy, Drama Tim Blake Nelson, James Franco, Zoe Kazan Joel Coen, Ethan Coen watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery (2022) 139m Comedy, Crime, Mystery Daniel Craig, Edward Norton, Janelle Monáe Rian Johnson watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Guillermo del Toro's Pinocchio (2022) 117m Animation, Fantasy, Drama, Music Ewan McGregor, David Bradley, Gregory Mann Guillermo del Toro, Mark Gustafson watch on Netflix watch on Netflix One of Hollywood most visionary filmmakers turns his attention to one of the most beloved tales in children’s literature in Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio , a stop-motion animated adaptation of Carlo Collodi’s 1883 novel The Adventures of Pinocchio.
 Featuring the voices of Ewan McGregor, David Bradley, and Gregory Mann, as Jiminy Cricket, Gepetto, and Pinocchio, respectively, the film chronicles the marionette Pinocchio’s quest to become a living boy — a journey that brings him through one adventure after another.
The star-filled voice cast also includes John Turturro, Ron Perlman, Finn Wolfhard, Cate Blanchett, Tim Blake Nelson, Christoph Waltz, and Tilda Swinton, among others. Some reviewers have named it one of the year’s best films, animated or otherwise.
Read less Bullet Train (2022) 127m Action, Comedy, Thriller Brad Pitt, Joey King, Aaron Taylor-Johnson David Leitch watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Always Be My Maybe (2019) pg-13 102m Comedy, Romance Ali Wong, Randall Park, Keanu Reeves Nahnatchka Khan watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Da 5 Bloods (2020) r 156m War, Drama Delroy Lindo, Jonathan Majors, Clarke Peters Spike Lee watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less tick, tick...BOOM! (2021) pg-13 121m Drama, Music Andrew Garfield, Alexandra Shipp, Robin de Jesús Lin-Manuel Miranda watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Andrew Garfield stars as Rent playwright Jonathon Larson in this semi-autobiographical film directed by Lin-Manuel Miranda. The musical drama chronicles Larson’s struggles to bring the rock musical he’s been working on for years to the stage while navigating love, friendships, and both personal and professional pressure in New York City.
Read less Passing (2021) 98m Drama Tessa Thompson, Ruth Negga, André Holland Rebecca Hall watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Best movies on Amazon Prime Best movies on Disney+ Best movies on HBO Max Best movies on Hulu The Trial of the Chicago 7 (2020) r 130m Drama, History Eddie Redmayne, Sacha Baren Cohen, Yahya Abdul-Mateen II Aaron Sorkin watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Best movies on Amazon Best movies on Disney+ Best movies on HBO Max Best movies on Hulu RRR (2022) 187m Action, Drama N.T. Rama Rao Jr., Ram Charan, Alia Bhatt S. S. Rajamouli watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Editors' Recommendations The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The best Black movies on Netflix right now The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now The best comedies on Netflix right now Best Products Netflix Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Entertainment Michael Fassbender in The Killer Netflix / Netflix Halloween is gone, Christmas movies are coming around the corner, but the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max (HBO), and other services haven't fully made the switch to Christmas. There are some high-quality additions each week, though, including some Oscar bait. We're keeping track of all of it in this weekly roundup, so you always have something new to watch.
We also have guides to the best movies on Netflix, the best movies on Hulu, the best movies on Amazon Prime Video, and the best movies on HBO.
Entertainment When you need to keep the kids occupied for a while, it's helpful to know the best kids movies on Netflix right now.
Netflix has an enormous library of kid-friendly content, including a host of original choose-your-own-adventure stories, but it's natural as a parent to want to know what your kids is watching. So, to help you find something quickly, we keep tabs on the collection every month and surface the best options here.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
