Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features Dragon Ball: The Breakers is still finding its balance ahead of launch By Jess Reyes Close Dragon Ball: The Breakers would be horrifying if it weren’t a bloodless anime game. It mimics the premise of Dead by Daylight , a co-op survival game, with seven Survivors versus one Raider. These poor souls have been sucked into a pocket dimension with an all-powerful supervillain that wants to kill them. If they summon a Super Time Machine and activate it in time to escape, they win the game. Meanwhile, the Raider wins if it stops the Super Time Machine from activating or kills off the entire cast.
The raid is on Restoring balance When I tested the game last year , I highlighted the power imbalance between the Survivors and Raider, reflected in how the Raider would consistently win every match even though everyone was new to the game. There was a much easier learning curve when adapting to the Raider than with Survivors. PAX West 2022 was my first time reuniting with the game since the closed beta test last year, so I was curious to see if my issues with it had changed much. While Raiders still dominated, the Survivors stood much more of a chance this time around.
The raid is on During PAX West, I played once as the Raider and once as a Survivor. It was much easier being a Raider, mostly because of the power difference. The rep at the booth said that Raiders who even slightly knew what they were doing would typically win. I could tell why. It was my first time playing as the Raider and I didn’t have much of a problem killing off all the Survivors — even though I was very, very confused while doing it.
We finally know what Dragon Quest Treasures is and when its launching Dragon Ball Z: Kakarot leads slow January as game sales decline 26% The Raider starts as a larva that slowly evolves as it absorbs and kills off players. The UI alerts you to the general location of nearby players with the word “player” floating over the grasses and mountains, but it’s purposefully not as helpful as the ones you see as a Survivor. As a Survivor, you can see how far the Raider is from you on the map as an icon and with the number of meters displayed on the screen if it’s close enough. There’s no “distance” like the number of meters to find players as a Raider.
While I was aimlessly searching for players to kill, the last three Survivors eventually activated the Super Time Machine. Thankfully, I found them just in time because of the beam of light the Super Time Machine shoots into the air when activated.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Survivors can activate temporary “Super Saiyan” powers with items they find while exploring the map or completing small quests. The Survivors I fought saved their transformations for the final showdown at the Super Time Machine, and they put up enough of a fight to deplete more than half my HP. However, the last Survivor’s transformation sequence ran out just in time, after which I swatted them out of the way like a fly and killed them.
It’s wild that a player who lands their hits could be rendered powerless as soon as the transformation deactivates. I understand that the Survivors are essentially playing a stealth game, but it still feels a little off.
Restoring balance So then I played as a Survivor — and won.
The development team added more options for Survivors to achieve their own victory even if their teammates failed. The biggest blow against the Raider would be if a boatload of Survivors escaped on the Super Time Machine. If the conditions are so bad that there aren’t enough Survivors to activate the Super Time Machine, then little Time Machines pop up across the map so that the remaining Survivors could save their own skins. There isn’t a set number, so you don’t need to worry about stealing them from each other.
Image used with permission by copyright holder As the Raider hunts down Survivors, the Survivors are supposed to activate keys to summon the Super Time Machine in each section of the map labeled with letters A through E. In my playthrough, most of the Survivors died before they could call the Super Time Machine and so a smaller one popped up. I hopped in as soon as possible and flew out before the Raider could catch me. The last guy, who was trying to activate his mini Time Machine too, was interrupted by the Raider and consumed before he could leave.
The Dragon Ball: The Breakers experience is such: Spend as much time hiding from the Raider as possible as a Survivor until you can summon a Time Machine to escape. If you see any valuables lying around, grab those in case they happen to be power-boosting items. Meanwhile, if you’re a Raider, fly around until you find people and kill them.
Also, of course, don’t get hit.
The Raider still seems too powerful for me to call it a “balanced” asymmetrical multiplayer game , but it definitely feels fairer for both sides than it was last year. Even if it launched as is, I think I’d be able to accept it the way it was, now that I don’t need to rely on other Survivors for my own “win.” Dragon Ball: The Breakers will launch for PC, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Nintendo Switch on October 14, 2022.
Editors' Recommendations Dragon Ball’s Dead by Daylight-like multiplayer game launches in October Dragon Ball: The Breakers needs to give its survivors a break ‘Project Z’ is a new Dragon Ball action RPG that retells Goku’s origin story Features Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Gaming Who doesn't love LEGO? If you're looking for the perfect gift for your kids or yourself, you can save some money during LEGO Black Friday deals. We've pulled some of our favorite options from the most popular LEGO sets, including Marvel, Star Wars, Technics and Speed Champions. There are also some generic sets at the bottom. Most of these are part of the massive Walmart Black Friday LEGO sale, so check that out too. While there are early Black Friday deals, they may not last until the actual shopping event. If you see something, you should grab it today.
Black Friday LEGO Marvel deals The LEGO and Marvel collaboration has brought joy to children for years now. If you want a cheap way to collect figures from your favorite Marvel comics, movies and TV shows, LEGO sets are a great place to start. Below we've pulled some cheap sets that include adult-focused sets like the Infinity Gauntlet and full-size action figures as well as some kid-friendly sets that focus on a mini-fig with some scenery.
Gaming November 19 marks the 25th anniversary of the original Half-Life, and to celebrate, Valve made a special announcement. No, Half-Life 3 was not announced. But Valve celebrated the anniversary with a massive update to the game on PC and a new documentary detailing its development. The best part: It's all available for free.
Half-Life's 25th-anniversary update incorporates the Half-Life: Uplink demo that Valve gave away as a CD via magazine and hardware manufacturer promotions in the 1990s and introduces many multiplayer maps. That includes four brand-new maps -- Contamination, Pool Party, Disposal, and Rocket Frenzy -- and three more maps that were previously only included in the Half-Life: Further Data CD release: Double Cross, Rust Mill, and Xen DM. It's also now possible to play as a Space Biker, Prototype Barney, Skeleton, and Too Much Coffee Man and use dozens of Further Data sprays in Half-Life: Deathmatch.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
