Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides How to get Yukong for free in Honkai: Star Rail 1.2 By Jess Reyes Close As of its 1.2 update, Honkai: Star Rail offers one more free four-star character.
 Yukong, the fox-eared leader of the Skyfaring Commission, appears at the start of the Trailblazer’s adventure on board the Xianzhou Luofu, a planet-like ship infected by a cancerous interstellar object called a Stellaron. You can currently get a copy of the former Xianzhou pilot by completing certain requirements.
Is Yukong a good character? What does she do? How to complete A Dragon Gallant, Its Ocean Distant mission How to complete Forgotten Hall: Memory of Xianzhou Luofu Stage 1 How long will I have to get Yukong for free? You need to complete two requirements to get Yukong for free: Complete the Trailblaze Mission A Dragon Gallant, Its Ocean Distant Complete Forgotten Hall: Memory of Xianzhou Luofu Stage 1 Here’s exactly how to complete both of those requirements.
All 10 free Light Cones in Honkai: Star Rail and where to find them How to forge the Divine Weapon in Honkai: Star Rail Should you pull for Blade or Kafka in Honkai: Star Rail 1.2? Is Yukong a good character? What does she do? Image used with permission by copyright holder Honkai: Star Rail features seven elements: Physical, Ice, Wind, Fire, Lightning, Quantum, and Imaginary. Yukong is the first Imaginary character that you can get for free, so she’s especially useful for anyone who couldn’t pull Imaginary five-star characters Welt and Luocha. She also plays a separate role from those two as a Harmony character.
Instead of healing allies or weakening enemies, Yukong specializes in buffing her teammates’ stats. She raises different stats and wields a different element than other Harmony characters, so how well she performs depends on type advantages and overall synergy with her teammates’ movesets. More specifically, she raises attack with her Skill and Crit Rate and Crit DMG with her Ultimate.
You already have access to at least one Harmony character for free and have the opportunity to pull for others from the standard banner. Still, it doesn’t hurt to try Yukong when she’s such an accessible character.
How to complete A Dragon Gallant, Its Ocean Distant mission Image used with permission by copyright holder Trailblaze Missions follow Honkai: Star Rail ‘s main plotline. If there are any Trailblaze Missions available, they should appear at the top of the Missions tab the moment you open it.
A Dragon Gallant, Its Ocean Distant is the last leg of the latest chapter. In it, the Trailblazer, Dan Heng, and friends confront the main villain of the Xianzhou Luofu Stellaron incident. You should get a notification about completing the mission after you finish the boss battle and return to safety.
This isn’t necessarily the last chapter of the Xianzhou Luofu arc, just the latest. It’s unclear how many more missions will be involved and how much longer the story of the Xianzhou will continue.
How to complete Forgotten Hall: Memory of Xianzhou Luofu Stage 1 Image used with permission by copyright holder If you haven’t already unlocked the Forgotten Hall, you should do so now. It’s an important part of unlocking new characters, resources, and more. Learn how to unlock and complete the Fleeting Lights quest to unlock the Forgotten Hall by reading our guide.
The Forgotten Hall has more than one section. The Jarilo VI stages feature the enemies and bosses you’ve fought in that world. Meanwhile, the Memory of Chaos section combines enemies from the different worlds into one hectic mishmash. HoYoverse added the Xianzhou Luofu stages to the Forgotten Hall in Honkai: Star Rail 1.2, which includes the foes you’ve faced on board the Xianzhou.
Stage 1 is just the fancy name for the first world in the Xianzhou Luofu section of the Forgotten Hall. If you’ve been regularly leveling up your best team members and reached the current “endgame,” the level 50 enemies in the first stage should be easy to crush with your over-leveled units.
How long will I have to get Yukong for free? Image used with permission by copyright holder Until further notice. There isn’t an end date listed for Yukong’s Travel Log promo. It’s a permanent event similar to Qingque’s, which also involves unlocking a character through the Forgotten Hall. If you open your phone dashboard and go to the Travel Log, you should see the offer to unlock Yukong under the “To Retire Upon the Perch” promotional banner.
After completing the two requirements listed in this guide, you should be able to click the “claim character” button on Yukong’s promo. You will receive her immediately. If you already have her, you will unlock her first Eidolon.
It wasn’t clear that “To Retire Upon the Perch” would be a permanent event until this update. Yukong initially debuted as a four-star character with boosted drop rates in Honkai: Star Rail 1.1. At that time, the Honkai: Star Rail 1.1 livestream confirmed that players would have the opportunity to earn her for free in version 1.2 if they couldn’t get her in 1.1.
Honkai: Star Rail is currently available for PC, iOS, and Android.
Editors' Recommendations How to get the most out of Honkai: Star Rail’s polarizing auto-battle system Honkai: Star Rail understands the key to making great ‘side’ content Is Honkai: Star Rail free-to-play? Honkai Star Rail Sunright Tea Studio Event: how to attend, rewards, and meetup details How to unlock Stagnant Shadows in Honkai: Star Rail How-To Guides Gaming Honkai: Star Rail features many challenges that the player can enter to earn rewards, including the Forgotten Hall. It's the equivalent of Genshin Impact's Spiral Abyss. In other words, it offers significant rewards for players who complete stages in a set number of turns, and it even offers a free character along the way. The Forgotten Hall stands in a set location in the Astral Express Parlor Car, which the player can visit at any time to test their skills and earn rewards when they reach new levels. However, that's only after unlocking it.
Here's what you need to do to unlock the Forgotten Hall and what else you should know about it.
How to unlock the Forgotten Hall Gaming Your Equilibrium Level is just part of Honkai: Star Rail's many leveling systems. You might have seen the term while leveling up your weapons viaa notice like "Needs Equilibrium Level 1" or something similar. It also appears at the top of your dashboard underneath your avatar and the profile edit option. However, if you just learned what Equilibrium Level is, it will be at 0.
Equilibrium Level changes the game's difficulty based on your level. After all, things would be too easy if all the lower-leveled enemies from past planets stayed the same. Each time you raise the Equilibrium Level, the higher enemies' levels will become. You also get more valuable rewards from challenging Calyx, Caverns of Corrosion, Stagnant Shadows, and Echoes of War.
Gaming Coming from the same team that brought us Genshin Impact, Honkai: Star Rail shares a lot in common with that mega-hit. The most noticeable is the art style and gacha mechanics, but what about the ability to play co-op? After you've added friends to your friends list, will this game let you actually jump in to help your friends out and explore the world together? Let's see how you can, and can't, help your friends out in Honkai: Star Rail.
Is there co-op in Honkai: Star Rail? The sad reality is, unlike Genshin, there's no direct co-op mechanic in Honkai: Star Rail to allow you and any number of friends to join up together. That begs the question, though, as to what the point of having a friends list even is. Well, while you can't directly help, or be helped, by a friend, there is a way you can assist one another.
How to use a friend's Support Characters Any person you add to your friend list will be selectable to summon in one of their Support Characters to join your party. There are a few restrictions to this system, though. For one, that Support Character will only stick with you for a set period of time, and they can only be used in Calyxes and Caverns of Corrosion. Additionally, any Support Character you take will have their level scaled to your level, meaning you can't borrow an overpowered unit to carry you through any encounters.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
