Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Should you pull for Blade or Kafka in Honkai: Star Rail 1.2? By Jess Reyes Close Honkai: Star Rail just dropped its 1.2 update, which means new content and characters. We get to see the next chapter of the Xianzhou Luofu plotline and pull for Stellaron Hunters Blade and Kafka, the latest limited-time five-star characters. They’re part of a mysterious organization that follows the will of someone named Elio, who supposedly can tell the future and even manipulate it. As the “five-star” title suggests, Blade and Kafka are some of the strongest teammates you can have. They play a significant part in the latest story arc and have the movesets to back up their roles as reoccurring anti-villains. Alas, even the most diligent savers would have a difficult time securing the currency to pull for them back to back. You might even want to conserve your Stellar Jade for Fu Xuan or Imbibitor Lunae.
When are Blade and Kafka’s banners? Why you should pull for Blade Why you should pull for Kafka Who is better: Blade or Kafka? You get eight characters for free just by playing through Star Rail ‘s story, so you shouldn’t need to spend money on limited-time event banners. Still, many of these characters significantly strengthen teams enough that it’s easier to clear difficult content and experiment with different playstyles.
So, should you pull for Kafka or Blade? Here are a few things to consider when choosing between the two.
Should you pull for Fu Xuan in Honkai: Star Rail 1.3? Honkai: Star Rail understands the key to making great ‘side’ content Is Honkai: Star Rail free-to-play? When are Blade and Kafka’s banners? Again, Blade and Kafka are limited-time characters. Both of them will only be available during Honkai: Star Rail 1.2 for their set dates and times until HoYoverse decides to rerun their banners in the future. This likely won’t be the last time you see Blade and Kafka, but the next time they come to Star Rail could be months in the future.
Here’s when you can pull for Blade and Kafka during version 1.2: Blade: July 19 (start of update) to August 9 Kafka: August 9 to August 30 Both Blade and Kafka will be a helpful addition to most teams, especially if you’re low on five-star characters. These are just a few things that might make one more valuable than the other for you.
Why you should pull for Blade Image used with permission by copyright holder You want to raise a Destruction or Wind character You want to experiment with a character that sacrifices HP for buffs You like edgy guys with tragic pasts Blade can be used as either a primary or secondary damage dealer. In general, he’ll be more useful to players that don’t have a heavy-hitting Wind unit yet. Dan Heng can meet many of the same needs because of his expertise in single-target Wind damage, even if he and Blade’s movesets are way different from each other. If you already have a fully built Dan Heng, you might want to reconsider getting Blade.
Most of Blade’s abilities scale based on his max HP, but they also eat his health. Using his Skill strengthens his attacks in exchange for HP, and his Ultimate restores HP when dealing damage to enemies. Enhancing his attacks doesn’t use any skill points, so it’s basically begging you to use it. You’ll want a healer in most cases to ensure that Blade doesn’t kick the bucket before he can unleash his full power.
Why you should pull for Kafka Image used with permission by copyright holder You want to raise a Nihility or Lightning character You want to experiment with a damage over time (DoT) playstyle You like her mommy-dommy vibes Kafka is a Nihility character, meaning she specializes in applying debuffs to enemies and causing damage to them over time. Her Ultimate, Talent, and Technique all apply Shock damage to enemies. Shock, just one of the status effects in Honkai: Star Rail , whittles away at enemies’ health more than the little purple lightning bolt icon initially lets on. Her skill does even more damage to enemies that already have a DoT debuff. Her talent launches a follow-up attack that deals Shock and heavy damage based on her attack stat, which also makes her an asset at dealing damage outside of her own turn.
That being said, Kafka isn’t a powerhouse all on her own. She needs teammates to deal the majority of the damage or perhaps apply even more debuffs to amplify her strengths. Unlike Silver Wolf, she doesn’t apply debuffs with the intention of waiting for a main DPS to take them out. She’s more like Serval, using her Lightning to chip away at multiple targets’ health to eliminate them faster.
Who is better: Blade or Kafka? If we’re talking about terms of raw damage and survivability, Blade is better than Kafka. He can slay entire waves of enemies by himself with his ability to strengthen and heal himself. It might be difficult to keep him alive without a healer in higher-level battles, but he hits a lot of different bases that Kafka can’t. She fits into a specific playstyle. Blade is more straightforward: Just put him in and let him fight.
Honkai: Star Rail is available for PC, iOS, and Android.
Editors' Recommendations How to get the most out of Honkai: Star Rail’s polarizing auto-battle system All 10 free Light Cones in Honkai: Star Rail and where to find them How to forge the Divine Weapon in Honkai: Star Rail How to get Yukong for free in Honkai: Star Rail 1.2 Honkai Star Rail Sunright Tea Studio Event: how to attend, rewards, and meetup details How-To Guides Gaming Honkai: Star Rail gradually teaches you to manage your Trailblaze Power, a rechargeable resource that lets you reap rewards from challenges like Calyx and Caverns of Corrosion. These challenges appear as the story goes on, forcing you to strategize about how to spend your Trailblaze Power as it recharges. One of the last challenges to appear is Stagnant Shadows, which rewards you with important materials for leveling up characters.
Some players might be confused on where to find Stagnant Shadows because they don't pop up until later in the game. Here's how to unlock Stagnant Shadows and where to find them.
How to unlock Stagnant Shadows Gaming Honkai: Star Rail features many challenges that the player can enter to earn rewards, including the Forgotten Hall. It's the equivalent of Genshin Impact's Spiral Abyss. In other words, it offers significant rewards for players who complete stages in a set number of turns, and it even offers a free character along the way. The Forgotten Hall stands in a set location in the Astral Express Parlor Car, which the player can visit at any time to test their skills and earn rewards when they reach new levels. However, that's only after unlocking it.
Here's what you need to do to unlock the Forgotten Hall and what else you should know about it.
How to unlock the Forgotten Hall Gaming Your Equilibrium Level is just part of Honkai: Star Rail's many leveling systems. You might have seen the term while leveling up your weapons viaa notice like "Needs Equilibrium Level 1" or something similar. It also appears at the top of your dashboard underneath your avatar and the profile edit option. However, if you just learned what Equilibrium Level is, it will be at 0.
Equilibrium Level changes the game's difficulty based on your level. After all, things would be too easy if all the lower-leveled enemies from past planets stayed the same. Each time you raise the Equilibrium Level, the higher enemies' levels will become. You also get more valuable rewards from challenging Calyx, Caverns of Corrosion, Stagnant Shadows, and Echoes of War.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
