Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features How to get the most out of Honkai: Star Rail’s polarizing auto-battle system By Jess Reyes Close Honkai: Star Rail is full of great quality of life features, but auto-battle has the game’s community divided. Rather than playing traditional turn-based RPG battles, auto=battle essentially does the work for players. Some fans love it because of how it helps them grind through daily resource runs or overcome early-game hurdles. Others, though, complain that it problematically automates what’s supposed to be a main component of the gameplay.
So, is it worth using? Yes. For the most part, it’s a helpful tool — when used properly. There are just a few exceptions that players should be wary about if they want to take advantage of the feature. Auto-battle works best in specific scenarios. Nine times out of 10, you’re smarter than the AI. That’s why so many people complain about dumb decisions it makes, like buffing a teammate that doesn’t need it or popping an Ultimate when a battle is nearly finished. At its core. auto-battle is meant to automate the most monotonous parts of the game and leave the most challenging (and frustrating) content for you to enjoy. If you’re looking to experiment with it, here’s how to use it to its fullest.
Making the most of auto-battle Auto-battle offers a solution where you can blow through battles with the press of a button, so you don’t have to stay engaged during the entire process. You can press the little double arrow icon in the top-right corner of your battle menu, surf the web in another tab, and check your game after a few minutes to find all your rewards waiting for you on the screen. I use auto-battle to fight waves of Calyxes, one of the challenges you can complete for experience books and level-up materials. It’s a big ask for players to commit even 30 minutes a day to grinding through the same challenges.
You can also use it for higher-level content like Echoes of War, Simulated Universe, and Forgotten Hall — with caution. Auto-battle doesn’t work equally as well for every challenge. Some enemies like Wooden Lupus multiply, so you’ll probably want to handle something like that yourself because auto-battle doesn’t always prioritize the right enemies. It might also attempt to “divide and conquer,” even when focusing on one target would better benefit the player, or vice versa. These quirks emphasize that the AI follows a hidden set of rules that a real person might not necessarily agree with, and it isn’t an objectively better way to fight.
Mihoyo Thankfully, you can still get the most out of it if you avoid the pitfalls. For example, if you’re fighting against a mob that includes Wooden Lupus, you can steer the battle so that you eliminate them before turning on auto-battle. You can also build a team that’s less prone to auto-battle inefficiencies.
Auto-battle infamously insists on spamming Support character Skills. Certain characters like Tingyun even have a reputation for annoying the player base because of how inefficiently they use skill points. Tingyun’s Skill lasts three turns, yet auto-battle will make her use it before the last cast even expires. Some players even complain about auto-battle using her Ultimate on the least optimal character , like having her spend it on a defender that is taunting or shielding when it should’ve been used on a heavy-hitting enemy with an empty gauge. If Support characters will make or break the battle, then it’s best to take the reins yourself.
The AI better handles specific kinds of characters, though. It’s competent at healing, not wasting a Skill or Ultimate until a unit has a significant amount of health missing. That way, you don’t need to worry about it healing a character that’s almost at full health. Some players report that it will even save multi-unit healing until more than one character can benefit from it. In my experience, it will also activate healing “Ultimates” out of urgency if one character is on the brink of death. In this case, you won’t need to worry about the AI forgetting to heal.
Beware: Auto-battle sometimes “wastes” Skill Points and Ultimates. It tends to use them right away, even though they will barely have any utility or should be saved to use in an emergency. It might deploy Gepard’s shields and Bronya’s buffs when the battle is one turn away from ending. It prioritizes moves that do the most damage without considering if there will be another battle (like a Wave) right after the last enemy in the current batch is dispatched. Even if Seele’s Normal Attack can finish off an enemy, it will often deploy her Ultimate instead. At the very least, you can stop auto-battle from using Ultimates from the settings menu if you want to do a hybrid approach where the AI does most of the battling, but you deploy the Ultimates yourself.
Honkai: Star Rail isn’t like chess, where an AI can escape capture as long as a solution exists. Auto-battle won’t necessarily guarantee victory, even if there’s a way to survive a particularly difficult battle. It can, however, save you time you would have spent grinding through dailies.
Honkai: Star Rail is available for PC, iOS, and Android.
Editors' Recommendations Honkai: Star Rail understands the key to making great ‘side’ content Android Apple Features Google Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Gaming Who doesn't love LEGO? If you're looking for the perfect gift for your kids or yourself, you can save some money during LEGO Black Friday deals. We've pulled some of our favorite options from the most popular LEGO sets, including Marvel, Star Wars, Technics and Speed Champions. There are also some generic sets at the bottom. Most of these are part of the massive Walmart Black Friday LEGO sale, so check that out too. While there are early Black Friday deals, they may not last until the actual shopping event. If you see something, you should grab it today.
Black Friday LEGO Marvel deals The LEGO and Marvel collaboration has brought joy to children for years now. If you want a cheap way to collect figures from your favorite Marvel comics, movies and TV shows, LEGO sets are a great place to start. Below we've pulled some cheap sets that include adult-focused sets like the Infinity Gauntlet and full-size action figures as well as some kid-friendly sets that focus on a mini-fig with some scenery.
Gaming November 19 marks the 25th anniversary of the original Half-Life, and to celebrate, Valve made a special announcement. No, Half-Life 3 was not announced. But Valve celebrated the anniversary with a massive update to the game on PC and a new documentary detailing its development. The best part: It's all available for free.
Half-Life's 25th-anniversary update incorporates the Half-Life: Uplink demo that Valve gave away as a CD via magazine and hardware manufacturer promotions in the 1990s and introduces many multiplayer maps. That includes four brand-new maps -- Contamination, Pool Party, Disposal, and Rocket Frenzy -- and three more maps that were previously only included in the Half-Life: Further Data CD release: Double Cross, Rust Mill, and Xen DM. It's also now possible to play as a Space Biker, Prototype Barney, Skeleton, and Too Much Coffee Man and use dozens of Further Data sprays in Half-Life: Deathmatch.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
