Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides All free characters in Honkai: Star Rail By Jess Reyes Close Honkai: Star Rail starts the player with enough characters to cover almost every Element and Path in its complex combat system.
The Trailblazer March 7th Dan Heng Asta Herta Natasha Qingque Serval Elements, like in Pokémon, have type weaknesses that players should take advantage of to deplete health and break armor. Paths are more like specific roles that characters play, like damage dealers, shielders, and healers.
Honkai: Star Rail further challenges the players to experiment with specific abilities and Light Cones for each character once they get comfortable enough with combat multipliers, but that’s for later. It gives the player just about everything they need for free before they choose to pull for more powerful characters later in the game.
HoYoverse eventually added Collei to the list of free characters it offered for Genshin Impact , so it’s possible that Honkai: Star Rail will add more later on. However, it’s offered more than enough at launch — here’s everything you need to know about the eight free characters available so far.
The Trailblazer Image used with permission by copyright holder Element: Physical, Fire Path: Destruction The Trailblazer is your character. Unlike the others, they learn to control multiple elements throughout the story and can switch between them whenever you like. They can deal plenty of damage early in the game as a Physical DPS, and their power only grows from there.
March 7th Image used with permission by copyright holder Element: Ice Path: Preservation March 7th is the first one to join your party early in the game. Her defensive skill helps you survive early-game encounters until you get a reliable healer, and her ability to freeze opponents comes in handy. It doesn’t hurt that her energetic personality adds to the game’s overall charm! Dan Heng Image used with permission by copyright holder Element: Wind Path: The Hunt Dan Heng joins soon after March 7th as you progress through the prologue. He excels at single-target attacks and energy recharge, especially with his fast-charging ultimate.
Asta Image used with permission by copyright holder Element: Fire Path: Harmony Asta isn’t technically “free” because you need to use a Star Rail Pass to get her, but it’s a required part of the game’s gacha-pulling tutorial. She’s a guaranteed first pull from the Beginner banner. Her buffs and firepower are helpful support early in the game.
Herta Element: Ice Path: Erudition Herta, the intelligent but particular owner of the Space Station, joins your party after your first run through the Simulated Universe. Like March 7th, she specializes in Ice, but her kit varies greatly because of its focus on multi-target attacks instead of defenses.
Natasha Image used with permission by copyright holder Element: Physical Path: Abundance Natasha is another character you can get while progressing through the story, but only after you reach the Underworld in Jarilo VI. She’s one of the only healers in the game. Thankfully, she fits into many teams as a flexible unit.
Many teams benefit from healer unless they focus on defensive characters like March 7th. Even then, there’s no harm with extra healing.
Qingque Image used with permission by copyright holder Element: Quantum Path: Erudition Qingque is the last free character that you can get in the game so far. After you reach Trailblazer Level 21, you can complete Forgotten Hall – Memory Stage 3 to claim her.
She’s one of the only characters with the Quantum Element, which makes her a valuable counter for some enemies that have it as a weakness. There’s no point in investing in her if you have Seele, but she guarantees that you will have a Quantum character no matter what.
Serval Image used with permission by copyright holder Element: Electric Path: Erudition Serval is HoYoverse’s thank-you gift for reaching a high enough number of pre-registrations for Honkai: Star Rail.
 You can claim her from your in-game mail. She’s the only Electric party member you get for free, which will be especially helpful for Jarilo VI’s robotic enemies.
Honkai: Star Rail is available on PC, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 , iOS, and Android.
Editors' Recommendations Is Honkai: Star Rail free-to-play? Does Honkai: Star Rail have co-op? Can you play Genshin Impact on PC? What cartoon characters are in Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl? Genshin Impact’s Switch port is still coming, says dev Gaming Genshin Impact voice actors shared announcements this morning about the upcoming 2.5 update, including information about highly anticipated characters and events. Yae Miko, the beloved fox familiar of Raiden Shogun and priestess of the Narukami Shrine, is the featured five-star character for the first banner of the update. Raiden Shogun and Sangonomiya Kokomi rerun side-by-side in the following banner after her debut.
Version 2.5 "When the Sakura Bloom" Trailer | Genshin Impact Gaming Genshin Impact, the hugely popular free-to-play action RPG from developer miHoYo, will be available today on Nividia's GeForce Now cloud gaming service. The game is currently in limited beta on PC only, with Nvidia promising a final release later this year.
Genshin Impact is the latest title to join the extensive list of games available on the GeForce NOW service, which allows players with less powerful PCs to take advantage of Nvidia's cloud streaming technology to play games in their libraries on more powerful hardware, provided they have a strong enough internet connection.
Gaming In 2020, Genshin Impact took the video game industry by storm, attracting a large player base and generating nearly $400 million in revenue within its first two months on the market. For context, this was more than Pokémon Go, which generated $238 million in revenue within the same time period.
At first glance, Genshin Impact might look like just another anime open-world game, but there are a lot of interesting things going on that set it apart. Why did it become so popular? What's the game like? How do all of its systems work? On which platforms is it available? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
