Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides All 10 free Light Cones in Honkai: Star Rail and where to find them By Jess Reyes Close Light Cones are the weapons of the Honkai: Star Rail world. Like the equippable Relic sets, they significantly strengthen characters with abilities and boosted stats. However, Star Rail ‘s gacha system means that you won’t be guaranteed the Light Cone you want from the standard and limited-time banners. Thankfully, there a few free-to-play options that will always be available for dedicated players who don’t mind grinding for them. We mean “free” in the sense that you won’t need to pull on banners to get these Light Cones, and they are in permanent locations that you can access whenever you want.
Where can I get free Light Cones? Which Light Cone should I buy first from Herta’s Shop? Which Light Cone should I buy first from Light Cone Manifest? Can you farm for any other Light Cones in Honkai: Star Rail? Here’s every Light Cone that you can get for free in Honkai: Star Rail.
Where can I get free Light Cones? At the beginning of Honkai: Star Rail , your first free units come with their own three-star Light Cones. You can easily superimpose these Light Cones using copies of the same item that you might get from pulling on banners. All the other free Light Cones come from two main places: Herta’s Shop and the Forgotten Hall.
Honkai: Star Rail understands the key to making great ‘side’ content Is Honkai: Star Rail free-to-play? Should you pull for Blade or Kafka in Honkai: Star Rail 1.2? Herta’s Shop HoYoverse Herta’s Shop is connected to the Simulated Universe, where you select randomized power-ups to battle through different worlds. It has three five-star Light Cones, custom-made Superimposers for strengthening those Light Cones, and unlimited Star Rail passes that you can buy with the rest of your Herta Bonds.
These are the Light Cones you can choose from: On the Fall of an Aeon (The Destruction): 8 Herta Bonds Texture of Memories (The Preservation): 8 Herta Bonds Cruising in the Stellar Sea (The Hunt): 8 Herta Bonds Herta Bonds come from clearing new Worlds in the Simulated Universe and earning enough points to clear your rewards queue every week. You won’t have enough Herta Bonds to buy Light Cones right away. After all, you need time to raise your Trailblaze Level, progress through the story, and level up your team. However, you’ll eventually grow strong enough to complete every Simulated Universe World if you keep playing.
You get two Herta Bonds for clearing each World for the first time at the lowest difficulty level. If you clear each World up to World 7, then that’s already 14 Herta Bonds. The rest of the Herta Bonds have to come from Point Rewards, which refresh each week. You can get one Herta Bond per week if you reach 9,600 points, which should take about two to three runs through any level, even if you don’t make it all the way through.
It’ll take longer to unlock the second five-star Light Cone and even longer to unlock the last one. That’s not even including the superimpositions you need to make the Light Cones stronger.
Light Cone Manifest Store HoYoverse The Light Cone Manifest store pops up after you unlock the Forgotten Hall through the Fleeting Lights mission. Lucent Afterglow, the currency you use to shop at the Light Cone Manifest, comes from completing stages in the Forgotten Hall and Echo of War challenges. Besides Lucent Afterglow, the Forgotten Hall rewards you with Stellar Jade, XP books, Aether, and other resources you need to level up your characters and Light Cones.
These are the Light Cones you can buy from Light Cone Manifest: River Flows in Spring (The Hunt) Woof! Walk Time! (The Destruction) Fermata (The Nihility) Past and Future (The Harmony) We Are Wildfire (The Preservation) Quid Pro Quo (The Abundance) The Seriousness of Breakfast (The Erudition) Each Light Cone costs 200 Lucent Afterglow. Completing each stage grants you eight Lucent Afterglow. However, most of the Lucent Afterglow will come from completing Echo of War challenges every week.
Which Light Cone should I buy first from Herta’s Shop? It depends! You should eventually buy every five-star Light Cone from Herta’s Shop. They are the easiest five-star Light Cones to get for free, and they each have abilities that will actually benefit most Destruction, Preservation, or Hunt characters.
The first one you pick just depends on what you get from gacha banners early on and what you value most in your team setup. For example, I chose Cruising in the Stellar Sea sto trengthen my main damage dealer (Seele), and then picked up Texture of Memories so that my shield (Gepard) could have one of the strongest Light Cones in the game. Also, I didn’t have any good Preservation Light Cones besides the three-star Amber, which fell short of expectations for late-game content. In that case, I ended up leaving On the Fall of an Aeon on the backburner. I might have thought differently if I decided to main a Destruction character like Arlan, though.
Which Light Cone should I buy first from Light Cone Manifest? Most of the Light Cones from the Light Cone Manifest store work better than their three-star counterparts, but not as well as their five-star ones. If you already have a five-star Hunt Light Cone, then you probably don’t need River Flows in Spring. Same with every other Light Cone here in comparison to their five-star counterparts.
That said, I’d recommend choosing Past and Future or Fermata if you don’t already have a better alternative for Harmony or Nihility characters. Destruction, Preservation, and Hunt characters have Herta’s five-star Light Cones as better options. Abundance characters can make better use of a three-star Cornucopia Light Cone, especially when strengthened with copies.
Note: Light Cones from the Light Cone Manifest store also appear in standard and limited-time banners. Don’t rush to get them right away, especially when you can get them from more than one place! Can you farm for any other Light Cones in Honkai: Star Rail ? HoYoverse Yes, you can get other free Light Cones in Honkai: Star Rail from pulling on banners and participating in limited-time events. However, the ones listed in this guide are the ones you can farm for from permanent challenges without needing to pull from banners. You can technically get five-star Light Cones for free from Starlight Exchange. However, each of those five-star Light Cones costs 600 Undying Starlight each.
Undying Starlight is one of the currencies you get from drawing four- and five-star characters and Light Cones from banners. In that case, you would need to pull from banners multiple times to even get close to saving enough for those five-star Light Cones. Farming for enough Stellar Jade to get these Light Cones will take exponentially more time than saving for any of the other free Light Cones in this guide.
Limited-time events can also offer free Light Cones for participation. For example, the Starhunt Game event with Silver Wolf offered the Before the Tutorial Starts Nihility Light Cone, which ended up being a popular pick for players who liked using Nihility characters.
Honkai: Star Rail is available for PC, iOS, and Android.
Editors' Recommendations How to get the most out of Honkai: Star Rail’s polarizing auto-battle system How to forge the Divine Weapon in Honkai: Star Rail How to get Yukong for free in Honkai: Star Rail 1.2 Honkai Star Rail Sunright Tea Studio Event: how to attend, rewards, and meetup details How to unlock Stagnant Shadows in Honkai: Star Rail How-To Guides Gaming Honkai: Star Rail features many challenges that the player can enter to earn rewards, including the Forgotten Hall. It's the equivalent of Genshin Impact's Spiral Abyss. In other words, it offers significant rewards for players who complete stages in a set number of turns, and it even offers a free character along the way. The Forgotten Hall stands in a set location in the Astral Express Parlor Car, which the player can visit at any time to test their skills and earn rewards when they reach new levels. However, that's only after unlocking it.
Here's what you need to do to unlock the Forgotten Hall and what else you should know about it.
How to unlock the Forgotten Hall Gaming Your Equilibrium Level is just part of Honkai: Star Rail's many leveling systems. You might have seen the term while leveling up your weapons viaa notice like "Needs Equilibrium Level 1" or something similar. It also appears at the top of your dashboard underneath your avatar and the profile edit option. However, if you just learned what Equilibrium Level is, it will be at 0.
Equilibrium Level changes the game's difficulty based on your level. After all, things would be too easy if all the lower-leveled enemies from past planets stayed the same. Each time you raise the Equilibrium Level, the higher enemies' levels will become. You also get more valuable rewards from challenging Calyx, Caverns of Corrosion, Stagnant Shadows, and Echoes of War.
Gaming Coming from the same team that brought us Genshin Impact, Honkai: Star Rail shares a lot in common with that mega-hit. The most noticeable is the art style and gacha mechanics, but what about the ability to play co-op? After you've added friends to your friends list, will this game let you actually jump in to help your friends out and explore the world together? Let's see how you can, and can't, help your friends out in Honkai: Star Rail.
Is there co-op in Honkai: Star Rail? The sad reality is, unlike Genshin, there's no direct co-op mechanic in Honkai: Star Rail to allow you and any number of friends to join up together. That begs the question, though, as to what the point of having a friends list even is. Well, while you can't directly help, or be helped, by a friend, there is a way you can assist one another.
How to use a friend's Support Characters Any person you add to your friend list will be selectable to summon in one of their Support Characters to join your party. There are a few restrictions to this system, though. For one, that Support Character will only stick with you for a set period of time, and they can only be used in Calyxes and Caverns of Corrosion. Additionally, any Support Character you take will have their level scaled to your level, meaning you can't borrow an overpowered unit to carry you through any encounters.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
