Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides How to forge the Divine Weapon in Honkai: Star Rail By Jess Reyes Close Tales of the Fantastic, the latest limited-time event in Honkai: Star Rail 1.2, ties in with a new chapter of the Trailblazer’s story. You can only partake in it after completing the “A Dragon Gallant, Its Ocean Distant” mission, the latest Trailblaze Mission and one part of the Xianzhou Luofu arc.
How to Forge the Divine Weapon in Honkai: Star Rail What rewards do I get from forging the Divine Weapon? What date does the Tales of the Fantastic event end? Image used with permission by copyright holder In it, Mr. Xiyan, a storyteller with a wild imagination, asks for the Trailblazer’s help with writing a story inspired by the events of how they and General Jing Yuan exposed the antagonist Phantylia and overcame her in battle.
Tales of the Fantastic has three parts to its Hero’s Journey. Each part came out consecutively. You can unlock each part from the event’s Travel Log promo, and each requires speaking to Mr. Xiyan and revisiting the places where the actual fighting took place. He then rewrites the scenes with extra flair to better market it to readers. The third part of that Hero’s Journey involves “forging the Divine Weapon,” which is more complicated than it lets on.
How to get the most out of Honkai: Star Rail’s polarizing auto-battle system How to get the Abacus and see enemy health bars in Sea of Stars All 10 free Light Cones in Honkai: Star Rail and where to find them Here’s what you need to know about forging the Divine Weapon in Honkai: Star Rail.
How to Forge the Divine Weapon in Honkai: Star Rail Image used with permission by copyright holder Forging the Divine Weapon isn’t necessarily difficult, there’s just a lot to remember. One mission on Herta’s Space Station tasked the Trailblazer with remembering a specific sequence used to run a machine. Forging the Divine Weapon is similar. You have to remember this sequence as is: Put in the Bona Aqua Put in the Ignis Aureliae Put in the coolant Put in the hilt-wood from the Arbor Add more Bona Aqua These steps will forge the Star-Shattering Blade of Truth, which isn’t a weapon that you can actually use, but stays in your inventory like a decorative paperweight. You can even rename the blade if the original name is too much of a mouthful for you.
What rewards do I get from forging the Divine Weapon? Image used with permission by copyright holder Forging the Divine Weapon is just one part of the Tales of the Fantastic. That said, it will reward you some resources separate from the rest of the event.
Here’s what you get for completing this part of the mission: 6 Adventure Logs 4 Condensed Aether 30,000 Credits It’s not much on its own, but it adds up if you complete all the parts of the mission.
What date does the Tales of the Fantastic event end? Image used with permission by copyright holder Tales of the Fantastic ends at 4 a.m. ET on August 7, 2023, so you have plenty of time to forge the Divine Weapon and complete all other parts of the event.
Tales of the Fantastic isn’t a make-or-break limited-time event. It will net you many rewards like XP books and Credits, but it also involves many tedious battles and fetch quests. Do with that information as you will.
Honkai: Star Rail is currently available for PC, iOS, and Android.
Editors' Recommendations Honkai: Star Rail: Best Relics, Ornaments, and Light Cone for Jingliu Should you pull for Fu Xuan in Honkai: Star Rail 1.3? How to change the difficulty in Sea of Stars Honkai: Star Rail understands the key to making great ‘side’ content Is Honkai: Star Rail free-to-play? How-To Guides Gaming As of its 1.2 update, Honkai: Star Rail offers one more free four-star character. Yukong, the fox-eared leader of the Skyfaring Commission, appears at the start of the Trailblazer’s adventure on board the Xianzhou Luofu, a planet-like ship infected by a cancerous interstellar object called a Stellaron. You can currently get a copy of the former Xianzhou pilot by completing certain requirements.
You need to complete two requirements to get Yukong for free: Gaming Honkai: Star Rail just dropped its 1.2 update, which means new content and characters. We get to see the next chapter of the Xianzhou Luofu plotline and pull for Stellaron Hunters Blade and Kafka, the latest limited-time five-star characters. They're part of a mysterious organization that follows the will of someone named Elio, who supposedly can tell the future and even manipulate it. As the "five-star" title suggests, Blade and Kafka are some of the strongest teammates you can have. They play a significant part in the latest story arc and have the movesets to back up their roles as reoccurring anti-villains. Alas, even the most diligent savers would have a difficult time securing the currency to pull for them back to back. You might even want to conserve your Stellar Jade for Fu Xuan or Imbibitor Lunae.
You get eight characters for free just by playing through Star Rail's story, so you shouldn't need to spend money on limited-time event banners. Still, many of these characters significantly strengthen teams enough that it's easier to clear difficult content and experiment with different playstyles.
Gaming HoYoverse is no stranger to collaborations. It even held a launch week event in Times Square for Honkai Star Rail, where fans could take pictures with a replica of the Astral Express and professional cosplayers dressed as the main cast. This time, HoYoverse announced a new global event for Honkai Star Rail related to bubble tea shops. It’s directly related to the "Sunright Tea Studio Event." Cosmic Refreshment Supply, the global event in question, offers Honkai Star Rail fans a way to get merch by purchasing drinks from HoYoverse partners across the globe. Sunright Tea Studio, a popular bubble tea chain from California, is HoYoverse’s partner for the event in the United States. Other event partners include Happy Lemon in the Philippines, KOI in Malaysia, and CHAGEE in Singapore.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
