Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Honkai: Star Rail: Best Relics, Ornaments, and Light Cone for Jingliu By Jess Reyes Close Jingliu was once known as a legend. She was the sword master of the Xianzhou Luofu and one of the High-Cloud Quintet, five legendary heroes in Xianzhou history, along with her pupil, General Jing Yuan. She eventually succumbed to Mara and was supposedly defeated in battle. However, you need to catch up with the latest chapter in Honkai: Star Rail 1.4 if you want to know exactly why she’s become a taboo name onboard the ship. Somehow, she’s back and as strong as she ever was.
Jingliu Abilities Best Light Cone for Jingliu Best Relics for Jingliu Best Ornaments for Jingliu Here’s a breakdown of Jingliu’s abilities, what makes her special, and the best way to build her.
Jingliu Abilities First and foremost, Jingliu is a damage dealer. As a Destruction character, her skills can focus either on one enemy or multiple depending on which one. Nearly all of her skills grow stronger with ATK, so you’ll want to raise that stat as high as possible. Crit DMG, Crit Rate, and SPD also benefit her as ideal substats for Light Cones, Relics, and Ornaments.
Should you pull for Fu Xuan in Honkai: Star Rail 1.3? All 10 free Light Cones in Honkai: Star Rail and where to find them How to forge the Divine Weapon in Honkai: Star Rail Jingliu’s signature ability is her power to build Syzygy, stacks of energy that increase her ATK and Crit Rate and enable her to hit multiple targets with one attack. She builds Syzygy with her Skill, Transcendent Flash, and her Ultimate, Florephemeral Dreamflux. Once she has two stacks of Syzygy, her Crescent Transmigration Talent immediately activates and moves her to the top of the queue with increased Crit Rate. Even better, it raises her ATK based on the HP in consumes from her allies.
These are all Jingliu’s abilities described in detail at Level 1: Image used with permission by copyright holder Basic Attack – Lucent Moonglow [Single Target]: Deals Ice DMG equal to 50% of Jingliu’s ATK to a single enemy.
Skill – Transcendent Flash [Single Target]: Deals Ice DMG equal to 100% of Jingliu’s ATK to a single enemy and obtains 1 stack(s) of Syzygy.
Skill – Moon On Glacial River [Blast]: Deals Ice DMG equal to 125% of Jingliu’s ATK to a single enemy, and deals Ice DMG equal to 62% of Jingliu’s ATK to adjacent enemies. Consumes 1 stack(s) of Syzygy. Using this ability does not consume Skill Points.
Ultimate – Florephemeral Dreamflux [Blast]: Deals Ice DMG equal to 180% of Jingliu’s ATK to a single enemy, and deals Ice DMG equal to 90% of Jingliu’s ATK to any adjacent enemies. Gains 1 stack(s) of Syzygy after attack ends.
Talent – Crescent Transmigration [Enhance]: When Jingliu has 2 stack(s) of Syzygy, she enters the Spectral Transmigration state with her Action Advanced by 100% and her CRIT Rate increases by 40%. Then, Jingliu’s Skill “Transcendent Flash” is enhanced to “Moon On Glacial River,” and only this enhanced Skill is available for use in battle. When Jingliu uses an attack in the Spectral Transmigration state, she consumes HP from all other allies equal to 4% of their respective Max HP (this cannot reduce allies’ HP to lower than 1). Jingliu’s ATK increases by 540% of the total HP consumed from all allies in this attack, capped at 90% of her base ATK, lasting until the current attack ends. Jingliu cannot enter the Spectral Transmigration state again until the current Spectral Transmigration state ends.
Technique – Shine of Truth [Impair]: After using this Technique, creates a dimension around Jingliu that lasts for 20 seconds and all enemies in this dimension will become Frozen. After entering combat with enemies in the dimension, Jingliu immediately regenerates 15 Energy and obtains 1 stack(s) of Syzygy, with a 100% base chance of Freezing enemy targets for 1 turn(s). While Frozen, enemy targets cannot take action, and receive Ice Additional DMG equal to 80% of Jingliu’s ATK at the start of every turn. Only 1 dimension created by allies can exist at the same time.
You can read these descriptions and try her for yourself in the Honkai: Star Rail 1.4 trial run.
Best Light Cone for Jingliu Image used with permission by copyright holder Any 5-star Destruction Light Cone will do just fine with Jingliu. However, I Shall Be My Own Sword , Jingliu’s signature Light Cone, fits best with her skills. Jingliu’s Talent forces her to drain HP from her allies, which easily activates the stacks of Eclipse needed to raise the wearer’s attack power and lower enemy defenses. However, pulling for this Light Cone takes way more Star Rail Special Passes than most players are willing to spend. After all, you’ll already need plenty of Passes if you want to pull Jingliu from her limited-time banner in the first place.
Her best free-to-play option is On the Fall of an Aeon , a 5-star Destruction Light Cone that you can buy from Herta’s Shop. You can get it for free and upgrade it to Superimposition Level 5 if you keep earning Herta Bonds from the Simulated Universe. Its useful ability also makes it an upgrade over most 4-star Light Cones.
I Shall Be My Own Sword (5-Star): Increases the wearer’s CRIT DMG by 20%. When an ally gets attacked or loses HP, the wearer gains 1 stack of Eclipse, up to a max of 3 stacks. Each stack of Eclipse increases the DMG of the wearer’s next attack by 14.0%. When 3 stacks are reached, additionally enables the attack to ignore 12% of the enemy’s DEF. This effect will be removed after the wearer uses an attack.
On the Fall of an Aeon (5-Star): Whenever the wearer attacks, their ATK is increased by 8% in this battle, up to 4 time(s). When the wearer inflicts Weakness Break on enemies, the wearer’s DMG increases by 12% for 2 turn(s).
Best Relics for Jingliu Hunter of the Glacial Forest and Musketeer of Wild Wheat are the two main Relic sets you want to focus on. Two pieces of each set or four pieces of one of these sets all work, but which one works best depends on the situation. Here’s a rundown of each set’s abilities for reference.
Hunter of Glacial Forest 2-Piece Bonus: Increases Ice DMG by 10%.
4-Piece Bonus: After the wearer unleashes their Ultimate, their CRIT DMG increases by 25% for 2 turns.
Musketeer of Wild Wheat 2-Piece Bonus: ATK increases by 12%.
4-Piece Bonus: The wearer’s SPD increases by 6% and Basic ATK DMG increases by 10%.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Two pieces of Hunter of Glacial Forest increase Ice DMG by 10%. Adding two pieces of Musketeer of Wild Wheat gives you a 10% ATK increase on top of that. Both of them increase Jingliu’s offensive power, so putting them together is even better than just one. These are also easier to pair together because you can mix and match the best of each set.
A four-piece Hunter of Glacial Forest set arguably works even better than a two-piece mix-and-match set, assuming you can somehow get good Crit Rate and Crit DMG from your four Relics. After all, that Crit DMG won’t do you any good if you don’t have a high enough Crit Rate to even get a critical hit. Aim for between 30 and 60% Crit Rate, or it isn’t worth it.
A four-piece Musketeer of Wild Wheat set is similarly situational. If you already have SPD boots equipped, then the extra 6% SPD boost seems unnecessary compared to a 10% Ice DMG bonus. A basic ATK boost isn’t much of a draw because Jingliu’s appeal comes from her Syzygy ability, which can’t charge using basic attacks.
If Jingliu’s SPD still falls short of 120, add SPD boots.
 This is especially important if you choose to equip Space Sealing Station Ornaments because you won’t get the extra 12% ATK bonus if your SPD is below 120.
Best Ornaments for Jingliu Most of Jingliu’s skills scale with her ATK. As a DPS, Crit Rate, Crit DMG, Energy Regeneration, and SPD also benefit her. In that case, Space Sealing Station works best as an Ornamental Set for Jingliu because of its accessibility and ATK boost. Many players should have access to Space Sealing Station Ornaments, considering they come from one of the first Worlds available in the Simulated Universe.
Alternatively, you can try any of the Crit Rate or Crit DMG-based Ornament sets. However, it might be difficult to get all the bonuses because of how high they are.
Rutilant Arena , the Ornament set applied to Jingliu in the trial run, is one such example. It requires Jingliu’s Crit Rate to be over 70%, which is difficult to achieve without getting lucky on stat increases as you level up Relics and Ornaments.
Pick a sphere with Ice DMG Boost as its main stat. If you don’t have any Ice DMG spheres, an ATK% one can work in the meantime. As for the Rope, an Energy Regeneration one is ideal for charging Jingliu’s Ultimate. If you can’t get one just yet, an ATK% will do. You can hand off ATK% spheres and ropes to other characters once you get better equipment.
Space Sealing Station: Increases the wearer’s ATK by 12%. When the wearer’s SPD reaches 120 or higher, the wearer’s ATK increases by an extra 12%.
Rutilant Arena: Increases the wearer’s CRIT Rate by 8%. When the wearer’s current CRIT Rate reaches 70% or higher, the wearer’s Basic ATK and Skill DMG increase by 20%.
Inert Salsotto: Increases the wearer’s CRIT Rate by 8%. When the wearer’s current CRIT Rate reaches 50% or higher, the wearer’s Ultimate and follow-up attack DMG increases by 15%.
Celestial Differentiator: Increases the wearer’s CRIT DMG by 16%. When the wearer’s current CRIT DMG reaches 120% or higher, after entering battle, the wearer’s CRIT Rate increases by 60% until the end of their first attack.
Editors' Recommendations How to get the most out of Honkai: Star Rail’s polarizing auto-battle system The best games of August 2023: Baldur’s Gate 3, Sea of Stars, and more Honkai: Star Rail understands the key to making great ‘side’ content Best Lego deals: Save on Star Wars, Batman, World Map, Friends Is Honkai: Star Rail free-to-play? How-To Guides Gaming As of its 1.2 update, Honkai: Star Rail offers one more free four-star character. Yukong, the fox-eared leader of the Skyfaring Commission, appears at the start of the Trailblazer’s adventure on board the Xianzhou Luofu, a planet-like ship infected by a cancerous interstellar object called a Stellaron. You can currently get a copy of the former Xianzhou pilot by completing certain requirements.
You need to complete two requirements to get Yukong for free: Gaming Honkai: Star Rail just dropped its 1.2 update, which means new content and characters. We get to see the next chapter of the Xianzhou Luofu plotline and pull for Stellaron Hunters Blade and Kafka, the latest limited-time five-star characters. They're part of a mysterious organization that follows the will of someone named Elio, who supposedly can tell the future and even manipulate it. As the "five-star" title suggests, Blade and Kafka are some of the strongest teammates you can have. They play a significant part in the latest story arc and have the movesets to back up their roles as reoccurring anti-villains. Alas, even the most diligent savers would have a difficult time securing the currency to pull for them back to back. You might even want to conserve your Stellar Jade for Fu Xuan or Imbibitor Lunae.
You get eight characters for free just by playing through Star Rail's story, so you shouldn't need to spend money on limited-time event banners. Still, many of these characters significantly strengthen teams enough that it's easier to clear difficult content and experiment with different playstyles.
Gaming HoYoverse is no stranger to collaborations. It even held a launch week event in Times Square for Honkai Star Rail, where fans could take pictures with a replica of the Astral Express and professional cosplayers dressed as the main cast. This time, HoYoverse announced a new global event for Honkai Star Rail related to bubble tea shops. It’s directly related to the "Sunright Tea Studio Event." Cosmic Refreshment Supply, the global event in question, offers Honkai Star Rail fans a way to get merch by purchasing drinks from HoYoverse partners across the globe. Sunright Tea Studio, a popular bubble tea chain from California, is HoYoverse’s partner for the event in the United States. Other event partners include Happy Lemon in the Philippines, KOI in Malaysia, and CHAGEE in Singapore.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
