Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Should you pull for Fu Xuan in Honkai: Star Rail 1.3? By Jess Reyes Close Fu Xuan might be small, but she is mighty. The pink-haired woman leads the Xianzhou Luofu’s Divination Commission and represents one of the Six Charioteers, the six leaders of the Xianzhou Luofu. Known as the Master Diviner, she has a reputation as one of the most powerful figures onboard the ship. A character’s role doesn’t necessarily translate to how well they perform in battle. Thankfully, in Fu Xuan’s case, it does.
When is Fu Xuan’s banner? Why you should pull for Fu Xuan Should you pull for Fu Xuan? Fu Xuan is the latest 5-star character to debut in Honkai: Star Rail 1.3. You only get so much Stellar Jade through your daily activities, so it’s important to save it for the most worthy characters to stay free to play. Here’s what you need to know to decide if Fu Xuan is worth that investment.
When is Fu Xuan’s banner? HoYoverse Fu Xuan is the featured 5-star for the second half of Honkai: Star Rail 1.3. Her banner is currently live and will be available until October 10.
Honkai: Star Rail: Best Relics, Ornaments, and Light Cone for Jingliu Sea of Stars tips and tricks: 8 things you should know before playing Which Baldur’s Gate 3 race should you pick? Fu Xuan will run with the following 4-stars: Lynx (Quantum/Abundance) Hook (Fire/Destruction) Pela (Ice/Nihility) Lynx, the youngest Landau sibling, just joined the roster in Honkai: Star Rail 1.3. She’s the first 4-star to enable AoE cleanse, aka remove debuffs from all teammates with her Ultimate. Even if you miss out on Fu Xuan, you might be lucky enough to nab her as a healer.
Why you should pull for Fu Xuan HoYoverse / HoYoverse You should pull for Fu Xuan if: You don’t have a 5-star Preservation or Abundance unit You’re tired of your team comps revolving around the same few characters You like her as a character Fu Xuan is a versatile unit that fits into many team comps. Her main appeal is her ability to solo sustain, meaning she can keep an entire team alive without help from another character. If you have Gepard, Honkai: Star Rail ‘s “ultimate shield,” then you can pull off the same effect. Even then, he can’t compete with the other perks that Fu Xuan offers.
Fu Xuan specializes in damage reduction instead of shielding like other Preservation characters. Her skill creates an effect called “Matrix of Prescience” that distributes damage from teammates to herself and raises teammates’ HP and Crit Rate for three turns. Fu Xuan can self-heal, so there’s no worry about whether she can stay afloat or not. If her HP dips below 50%, it triggers her talent which heals her almost back to full health.
There’s been a long-standing dilemma with Preservation characters: you generally need a healer if there’s any possibility of teammates losing a significant amount of health. A fully built Gepard can protect allies from almost all damage, but you have to keep his Ultimate constantly charged. You can trigger Fire Trailblazer’s shields fairly often, but they are paper thin in comparison. March 7th can apply a sturdy shield to one ally with her Skill each turn, but that leaves room for enemies to attack the other allies without protection. When built optimally, Fu Xuan can eliminate these worries.
One of Fu Xuan’s trace abilities also unlocks her healing potential. She doesn’t have as much outgoing healing as a true healer like Natasha or Lynx. That said, her damage mitigation makes it so that your units shouldn’t take that kind of damage. Her buffs also mimic the kind you could get from a Harmony character, so you have more options for how to play around with your team.
Should you pull for Fu Xuan? HoYoverse Objectively, yes. You should pull for Fu Xuan because she’s currently the Preservation unit with the most utility in the game. Definitely pull for her if you don’t have other 5-star Preservation and Abundance units like Gepard, Bailu, and Luocha.
Honkai: Star Rail is the kind of game where you can get by with even just 4-star units. However, super units like Fu Xuan can make boss battles a breeze and help you clear difficult content like that in the Forgotten Hall’s Memory of Chaos.
 Her unique kit can significantly boost your team’s survivability without worrying about keeping shields up. Even better, Fu Xuan’s own survivability makes her a pillar for any team.
Honkai: Star Rail is currently available for PC, iOS, and Android.
Editors' Recommendations Should you pick Claude or Rena in Star Ocean: The Second Story R How to get the most out of Honkai: Star Rail’s polarizing auto-battle system All 10 free Light Cones in Honkai: Star Rail and where to find them Which Baldur’s Gate 3 class should you pick? Honkai: Star Rail understands the key to making great ‘side’ content How-To Guides Gaming I know I'm not the only one who has been intimidated by the sheer complexity of computer role-playing games (CRPGs) in the past. Games like Divinity: Original Sin 2 have always intrigued me because of just how deep and flexible these experiences are, and yet the systems and mechanics have always kept me away. I've just been too intimidated, but that needs to change soon.
With Baldur's Gate 3 about to drop in its full release, I realized I couldn't resist any longer. If I was going to enjoy what's shaping up to be a landmark CRPG, I'd need to overcome my onboarding worries if I was going to find the fun. With the release just a few days away, I've made a decision that I think will finally get me into a CRPG as dense as this: I am going to read the heck out of some guides during my adventure. And I encourage you to do the same.
Guide my hand For a very long time, there's been an elitist mindset in some gaming circles that using guides or looking things up about games in any capacity somehow sullies the sanctity of the experience. In reality, that couldn't be further from the truth. Sure, extra assistance might spoil a solution-based puzzle game if you look up every answer without trying to solve it yourself, but guides can also enhance one's experience. Some may find joy in the process of solving esoteric riddles, fighting a boss with unclear mechanics, or unlocking hidden weapons for hours on end. But that's not true for everyone.
Gaming Tales of the Fantastic, the latest limited-time event in Honkai: Star Rail 1.2, ties in with a new chapter of the Trailblazer’s story. You can only partake in it after completing the "A Dragon Gallant, Its Ocean Distant" mission, the latest Trailblaze Mission and one part of the Xianzhou Luofu arc.
In it, Mr. Xiyan, a storyteller with a wild imagination, asks for the Trailblazer’s help with writing a story inspired by the events of how they and General Jing Yuan exposed the antagonist Phantylia and overcame her in battle.
Gaming Honkai: Star Rail is advertised as a free-to-play game, yet many warn about the dangers of spending on it. That might be because of its status as a gacha game, one that gives you characters and weapons based on chance. You pull for characters and weapon-like cards called Light Cones from banners. However, you might not get the one you want, even over a hundred pulls later. Players often fawn over particular characters and weapons because of their stories and strengths. Still, HoYoverse says that the game is completely free-to-play.
Here's the verdict on whether or not Honkai: Star Rail is free-to-play, if there's anything you can buy in the game, and if you should buy anything in the game.
Is Honkai: Star Rail free-to-play? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
