Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Honkai Star Rail Sunright Tea Studio Event: how to attend, rewards, and meetup details By Jess Reyes Close HoYoverse is no stranger to collaborations. It even held a launch week event in Times Square for Honkai Star Rail , where fans could take pictures with a replica of the Astral Express and professional cosplayers dressed as the main cast. This time, HoYoverse announced a new global event for Honkai Star Rail related to bubble tea shops. It’s directly related to the “Sunright Tea Studio Event.” When is the Sunright Tea Studio Event? Where is the Sunright Tea Studio Event? What drinks can I get from the Sunright Tea Studio Event? What rewards can I get from the Sunright Tea Studio Event? What is the Sunright Tea Studio Fan Meet-Up? Cosmic Refreshment Supply, the global event in question, offers Honkai Star Rail fans a way to get merch by purchasing drinks from HoYoverse partners across the globe. Sunright Tea Studio, a popular bubble tea chain from California, is HoYoverse’s partner for the event in the United States. Other event partners include Happy Lemon in the Philippines, KOI in Malaysia, and CHAGEE in Singapore.
Honkai Star Rail fans in the U.S. might be confused about how they can participate in the event, especially if they haven’t heard of Sunright Tea Studio before. Thankfully, we’re here to clear that up for you. Here’s how you can participate in the Sunright Tea Studio Event and what you can get from it.
When is the Sunright Tea Studio Event? The Sunright Tea Studio Event starts on Wednesday, July 19, and ends on Wednesday, August 30.
Honkai Star Rail fans in the U.S. have over a full month to claim rewards from this event.
Where is the Sunright Tea Studio Event? Image used with permission by copyright holder Unfortunately, the Sunright Tea Studio Event is limited to Sunright Tea Studio bubble tea shops. Most of them are located on the west coast in Southern California with only a few stray shops in other parts of the country near Houston, Texas, and O’Fallon, Missouri. You can view the full list of locations on Google Maps or directly on the Sunright Tea Studio website.
What drinks can I get from the Sunright Tea Studio Event? Image used with permission by copyright holder There are two Honkai Star Rail character-themed drinks that you can buy from Sunright Tea Studio during the event. HoYoverse hasn’t indicated that they will return again in the future, so get them while you can.
Kafka: Blushing Blueberry Splendor Blade: Karmic Chocolate Matcha What rewards can I get from the Sunright Tea Studio Event? Image used with permission by copyright holder Most of the rewards revolve around the Kafka and Blade collaboration drinks. All the Global Tea Ceremony Events, including the Sunright Tea Studio Event, offer complimentary cup sleeves, stickers, coasters, and redemption cards depending on the number of collaboration drinks you order from the shop. HoYoverse posted previews of the items on its official blog and on Twitter.
Here’s what you can get: 1 collaboration drink: Get a complimentary, randomized cup sleeve and redemption card.
2+ collaboration drinks: Get a pair of coasters, two randomized cup sleeves, and a redemption card per drink.
Don’t worry if the Kafka and Blade drink flavors don’t match your tastes. You can still get a sticker when you buy any drink from Sunright Tea Studio during the event.
What is the Sunright Tea Studio Fan Meet-Up? Image used with permission by copyright holder The Sunright Tea Studio Fan Meet-Up is a separate event from the Sunright Tea Studio Event. The general event is an ongoing deal where you can earn free merch. The fan meetup is on a specific date at a specific place. It’s only happening in the Sunright Tea Studio in Los Angeles’ Little Tokyo.
Here are the details for the Honkai Star Rail Sunright Tea Studio Fan Meet-Up: Date/Time: Saturday, July 29 from 2 to 4 PM Pacific Location: 134 South Central Ave, Los Angeles You need to RSVP for the meetup , but that doesn’t necessarily mean you’ll get in. HoYoverse hasn’t specified exactly how it’ll be reviewing its applications, but it will be “finalizing the guest list based on various factors.” As per the official announcement , Kafka and Blade are apparently going to be there. Based on what’s happened at past HoYoverse events, that might mean that professional cosplayers dressed as Kafka and Blade will appear on-site. If you show up in your own Honkai Star Rail cosplay, you will get a free Trailblazer postcard (while supplies last).
Editors' Recommendations Is Honkai: Star Rail free-to-play? Does Honkai: Star Rail have co-op? How to add friends in Honkai: Star Rail You can still get a Thunder Shotgun in Fortnite Chapter 4 Season 2. Here’s how Marvel Snap’s Winterverse event introduces new cards, variants, and more Android Apple Google Gaming HoYoverse, the Chinese game development studio that brought us Genshin Impact, has shown off a double feature of trailers for two new stylish games at Summer Game Fest: Honkai: Star Rail and Zenless Zone Zero.
Summer Game Fest: HoYoverse Honkai: Star Rail World Premiere Trailer Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Gaming Who doesn't love LEGO? If you're looking for the perfect gift for your kids or yourself, you can save some money during LEGO Black Friday deals. We've pulled some of our favorite options from the most popular LEGO sets, including Marvel, Star Wars, Technics and Speed Champions. There are also some generic sets at the bottom. Most of these are part of the massive Walmart Black Friday LEGO sale, so check that out too. While there are early Black Friday deals, they may not last until the actual shopping event. If you see something, you should grab it today.
Black Friday LEGO Marvel deals The LEGO and Marvel collaboration has brought joy to children for years now. If you want a cheap way to collect figures from your favorite Marvel comics, movies and TV shows, LEGO sets are a great place to start. Below we've pulled some cheap sets that include adult-focused sets like the Infinity Gauntlet and full-size action figures as well as some kid-friendly sets that focus on a mini-fig with some scenery.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
