Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides How to unlock the Forgotten Hall in Honkai: Star Rail By Jess Reyes Close Honkai: Star Rail features many challenges that the player can enter to earn rewards, including the Forgotten Hall. It’s the equivalent of Genshin Impact ‘s Spiral Abyss. In other words, it offers significant rewards for players who complete stages in a set number of turns, and it even offers a free character along the way. The Forgotten Hall stands in a set location in the Astral Express Parlor Car, which the player can visit at any time to test their skills and earn rewards when they reach new levels. However, that’s only after unlocking it.
How to unlock the Forgotten Hall What happens if you tell the Astral Crew about the Messenger? How many levels are in the Forgotten Hall? How do I get stars in the Forgotten Hall? Here’s what you need to do to unlock the Forgotten Hall and what else you should know about it.
How to unlock the Forgotten Hall Image used with permission by copyright holder You can unlock the Forgotten Hall with the Fleeting Lights quest. The Honkai: Star Rail community is still confused on the exact Trailblaze Level you need to be at, but you should be around Trailblaze Level 20 when you receive the quest. If you still don’t receive the quest, try raising your Equilibrium Level. Some players have reported receiving the quest after completing their first Trial of Equilibrium.
All 10 free Light Cones in Honkai: Star Rail and where to find them How to forge the Divine Weapon in Honkai: Star Rail How to get Yukong for free in Honkai: Star Rail 1.2 At the start of the Fleeting Lights quest, Pom-Pom will message you about something strange happening on the Express. The Astral Express Crew decides to investigate the cause of Pom-Pom’s ire. The Trailblazer finds a strange mirror that only they can see in the Parlor Car. The Messenger, a mysterious being accompanying the mirror, tells you that you can’t tell the Express the truth about it.
What happens if you tell the Astral Crew about the Messenger? It doesn’t matter if you choose to tell the Astral Express Crew about the Messenger or not. You will still have access to the Forgotten Hall either way. If you tell them, then the Messenger will scold you for divulging their secret and tell you that they will need to erase the crew’s memories later.
After you complete the quest, the Forgotten Hall should be available to enter from the Parlor Car at any time.
How many levels are in the Forgotten Hall? Image used with permission by copyright holder There are 15 Memory Stages in the Forgotten Hall. Each one features enemies with progressively higher levels. You won’t be able to move on to the next stage until you complete the last one. Note that completing the stage is different from earning stars for each stage. You get rewards for completing each stage, no matter how many cycles it takes you or how many characters are downed during the trial.
Later on, you can unlock 10 more Memory of Chaos stages. Those swap out periodically during set seasons.
How do I get stars in the Forgotten Hall? Each Memory Stage offers up to three stars for completing the trial under certain conditions. There are three conditions per Memory Stage, typically a certain number of cycles you need to complete the challenge in and the condition that you complete them without letting a single character faint. For example, Memory Stage 8 only rewards you with all three stars if you defeat all the enemies with more than 12 cycles left.
Editors' Recommendations How to get the most out of Honkai: Star Rail’s polarizing auto-battle system Honkai: Star Rail understands the key to making great ‘side’ content Is Honkai: Star Rail free-to-play? Should you pull for Blade or Kafka in Honkai: Star Rail 1.2? Honkai Star Rail Sunright Tea Studio Event: how to attend, rewards, and meetup details How-To Guides Gaming Honkai: Star Rail gradually teaches you to manage your Trailblaze Power, a rechargeable resource that lets you reap rewards from challenges like Calyx and Caverns of Corrosion. These challenges appear as the story goes on, forcing you to strategize about how to spend your Trailblaze Power as it recharges. One of the last challenges to appear is Stagnant Shadows, which rewards you with important materials for leveling up characters.
Some players might be confused on where to find Stagnant Shadows because they don't pop up until later in the game. Here's how to unlock Stagnant Shadows and where to find them.
How to unlock Stagnant Shadows Gaming Your Equilibrium Level is just part of Honkai: Star Rail's many leveling systems. You might have seen the term while leveling up your weapons viaa notice like "Needs Equilibrium Level 1" or something similar. It also appears at the top of your dashboard underneath your avatar and the profile edit option. However, if you just learned what Equilibrium Level is, it will be at 0.
Equilibrium Level changes the game's difficulty based on your level. After all, things would be too easy if all the lower-leveled enemies from past planets stayed the same. Each time you raise the Equilibrium Level, the higher enemies' levels will become. You also get more valuable rewards from challenging Calyx, Caverns of Corrosion, Stagnant Shadows, and Echoes of War.
Gaming Coming from the same team that brought us Genshin Impact, Honkai: Star Rail shares a lot in common with that mega-hit. The most noticeable is the art style and gacha mechanics, but what about the ability to play co-op? After you've added friends to your friends list, will this game let you actually jump in to help your friends out and explore the world together? Let's see how you can, and can't, help your friends out in Honkai: Star Rail.
Is there co-op in Honkai: Star Rail? The sad reality is, unlike Genshin, there's no direct co-op mechanic in Honkai: Star Rail to allow you and any number of friends to join up together. That begs the question, though, as to what the point of having a friends list even is. Well, while you can't directly help, or be helped, by a friend, there is a way you can assist one another.
How to use a friend's Support Characters Any person you add to your friend list will be selectable to summon in one of their Support Characters to join your party. There are a few restrictions to this system, though. For one, that Support Character will only stick with you for a set period of time, and they can only be used in Calyxes and Caverns of Corrosion. Additionally, any Support Character you take will have their level scaled to your level, meaning you can't borrow an overpowered unit to carry you through any encounters.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
