Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Is Honkai: Star Rail free-to-play? By Jess Reyes Close Honkai: Star Rail is advertised as a free-to-play game, yet many warn about the dangers of spending on it. That might be because of its status as a gacha game, one that gives you characters and weapons based on chance. You pull for characters and weapon-like cards called Light Cones from banners. However, you might not get the one you want, even over a hundred pulls later. Players often fawn over particular characters and weapons because of their stories and strengths. Still, HoYoverse says that the game is completely free-to-play.
Is Honkai: Star Rail free-to-play? Do you need to buy anything in Honkai: Star Rail? Is the Express Supply Pass or Battle Pass worth it? Here’s the verdict on whether or not Honkai: Star Rail is free-to-play, if there’s anything you can buy in the game, and if you should buy anything in the game.
Is Honkai: Star Rail free-to-play? HoYoverse / HoYoverse Yes, Honkai: Star Rail is free-to-play in the traditional sense of the word. You can download it straight from the website or your respective app store right now and start playing without spending a cent. The only way someone could argue it isn’t free-to-play is because of what you would need to spend to enjoy it to its fullest. Even then, Honkai: Star Rail is what many would consider “ free-to-play friendly.
” You can progress through the story and many of the challenges without spending any money. However, your progress will start to slow down as you reach higher levels of the game like after Trailblaze Level 60.
Do you need to buy anything in Honkai: Star Rail? Honkai: Star Rail doesn’t require you to spend real-life currency on most of the items in its store. Many of them instead require in-game currencies like Undying Starlight and Undying Embers to buy items. You can find the Store on your phone dashboard in the upper left corner.
Image used with permission by copyright holder These are the items currently up for sale: Express Supply Pass: $5 Nameless Glory Battle Pass: $10 Nameless Medal Battle Pass: $20 Oneiric Shard x60: $1 Oneiric Shard x300: $5 Oneiric Shard x980: $15 Oneiric Shard x1980: $30 Oneiric Shard x3280: $50 Oneiric Shard x6480: $100 You can find most of these items in the Oneiric Pouch section of the store. Oneiric Shards don’t have any other purpose than to be traded in for Stellar Jade, the currency you actually need to pull for characters and Light Cones from banners. Many players want the hottest new characters and their respective Light Cones — like Blade and Kafka for Honkai: Star Rail 1.2.
Thus, they submit to buying Oneiric Pouches to get the Stellar Jade to do that.
Oneiric Pouches also seduce players with their first-time purchase bonuses, which offer you double the Shards when you first buy that particular bundle. For example, a 1980 Oneiric Shard bundle will give you 3960 Oneiric Shards the first time you buy that particular bundle. The equivalent bundles in Genshin Impact eventually reset their bonuses after a set amount of time.
Is the Express Supply Pass or Battle Pass worth it? Image used with permission by copyright holder The Express Supply Pass and Battle Passes are the exceptions to the long list of Oneiric Pouch bundles. You can get up to 2,800 Stellar Jade from the Express Supply Pass if you log in consecutively for 30 days after buying it. It incentivizes you to play every day so that you can claim the 90 Stellar Jade it offers you per day and get the full amount. It also gives you 300 Oneiric Shards upon purchase, which can be traded in for the Stellar Jade you would need to pull for characters from banners.
The Nameless Glory Battle Pass Tier offers something completely different than Stellar Jade-fueled incentives. It gives you many more resources than you would get from just the free Nameless Honor tier — like a Battle Pass-exclusive four-star Light Cone. Each of the Battle Pass Light Cones is considered a strong weapon within the game’s meta. On the other hand, the Nameless Medal Battle Pass offers everything the Nameless Glory tier does and more, including boosting your Battle Pass tier immediately by 10 levels. It might be worth it for someone who wants to catch up quickly, especially if they have cash to burn.
In the end, Honkai: Star Rail still doesn’t require you to spend any money to play it. However, those with addiction-prone personalities might find it difficult to resist spending money to get the latest characters and level them up quickly with the resources you can get from spending. Spend your money wisely.
Honkai: Star Rail is currently available on PC, iOS, and Android.
Editors' Recommendations Honkai Star Rail Sunright Tea Studio Event: how to attend, rewards, and meetup details All free characters in Honkai: Star Rail PlayStation Stars program awards high-tier members priority customer service Genshin Impact studio shows off two stylish new games at Summer Game Fest Star Wars: Squadrons will get free post-launch updates after EA changes course Gaming Respawn Entertainment is celebrating today's unofficial Star Wars holiday with a big free update to Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order. For May the Fourth, the fan-favorite, Metroidvania-style game receives two new game modes, including one that allows players to create their own combat encounters.
The first comes in the form of Combat Challenges, a wave-based mode set on the various planets that Cal and his space-faring cohorts explore across the story. Players can chase three-star ratings in each of the 12 challenges available. They're designed for veteran players, so it's recommended players tackle them as post-game content when Cal Kestis can hold his own. Unlocking 12 stars in total will reward players with three new skins for Cal's droid ally, BD-1.
Gaming PlayStation 4 owners will soon be able to swing lightsabers in virtual reality as Vader Immortal: A Star Wars VR Series is coming to PlayStation VR, the console maker announced on May 4, known as Star Wars Day.
While no release date for Vader Immortal is set, developer ILMxLAB said it expects the experience to release sometime this summer. The PlayStation VR version will include all three episodes originally released separately on Oculus platforms. The chapters were listed at $10 each initially, but there hasn't been a price point given for the PSVR release.
Gaming Star Wars Episode I: Racer, originally rolled out for the Nintendo 64 and PC in 1999, will be re-released for the PlayStation 4 and Nintendo Switch on May 12.
The racing game was launched alongside Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace, and it is based on podracing, one of the film's most memorable sequences. Aspyr, the developer behind the recent ports of Star Wars Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy and Star Wars Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast, both for the Nintendo Switch, is also in charge of bringing Star Wars Episode I: Racer to modern consoles.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
