Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Features The Mageseeker blends League of Legends lore with Hades’ action By Jess Reyes Close When I sat down to try a demo of The Mageseeker: A League of Legends Story at PAX East, I was dropped straight into an escape mission. At first, I fumbled with switching between casting spells and dodging attacks from enemy mages. By the end, I juggled between at least four magical abilities while dashing around to survive. It was a hectic experience, but one that perfectly complemented its storytelling.
Award-worthy action No League necessary In the new League of Legends action RPG from developer Digital Sun, magic is outlawed in Demacia.
 Sylas, a former mage hunter with magical powers of his own, busts out of prison and starts his quest for vengeance against those who imprisoned him. The Mageseeker explores the backstory through an action RPG that faithfully builds on League of Legends lore.
Digital Sun took inspiration from games like Hyper Light Drifter, Cross Code, and Hades when creating it, and that’s very apparent based on the fast-paced gameplay I tried at PAX. On top of that, though, it doubles as an intriguing addition to the League universe for newcomers and veterans alike.
Mageseeker is shaping up to be one of the best action games of the year — enough so that I’m tempted to call it Hades -level good.
Award-worthy action Mageseeker ’s complex combat system is its crown jewel. Sylas’ signature ability steals powers from enemy mages, and it can only trigger again after a brief cooldown. This limit forces players to aim spells carefully and rely on other attacks besides magic. Magic falls into one of six elements with type advantages and elemental weaknesses that developers tried to keep simple, like fire being strong against ice.
Melee attacks and evasive maneuvers round out the system. The Mageseeker gets a dash, light attack, and heavy attack that all have minimal cooldowns. The two melee attacks aren’t just the same skills with different damage outputs. They differ on both speed and range, adding another layer of strategic pacing to battles.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In addition to basic attacks, players can hold four abilities that can be freely used via D-pad. They rely on an energy meter that charges based on how often you attack enemies and objectives, though. I repeatedly slammed Sylas’ chains against a gate that the captive NPC asked me to break down, which covered all my charging needs. During the demo boss fight, I cycled between frantic dashing, timely melee attacks, and healing magic whenever I had meter.
Smart UI decisions enhance that combat flow. Each monster I faced had a clear visual cue that alerted me when it was attacking, when it was about to recover, and how to differentiate between them on a busy screen. I’d sometimes find myself in a screen full of enemies, all of them throwing magic while a boss unleashed wave after wave of devastating attacks outlined in red. When I messed up, I was always sure it was my fault and not the product of unclear game design.
All that action is responsive without feeling a step off beat, and none of the controls overlapped enough that they interfered with each other. Every maneuver felt easy to execute with the button layout, enough that I was able to choreograph my next attack at each point of the fight and effectively combo enemies.
No League necessary Action isn’t sole focus here, though. Digital Sun knew it wanted to go with an action RPG instead of a roguelite like Moonlighter (its previous game) this time so that it could focus on story. While Hades offers an example of a satisfying story with a roguelite setup, the developers thought it would be easier for the team to strengthen the narrative in a more straightforward way. The team had the idea for a protagonist who could copy abilities for their new game without knowing that Sylas would be just around the corner. By a stroke of luck, the titular Mageseeker joined the League of Legends roster just before the team pitched the idea to Riot Forge.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Digital Sun highlighted that Mageseeker was supposed to be for everyone, even those with limited League of Legends knowledge. The RPG takes place after the events of the Lux comic , which anyone can read online for free. However, you don’t need to have context to enjoy the story or gameplay. I’m a beginner at League and didn’t have an issue picking it up during my demo. It helps that an introductory cutscene explains Sylas’ circumstances, including why he was locked in the Mageseeker compound and his reasons for seeking revenge.
Developers at PAX told Digital Trends that they prioritized treating the characters Riot made with respect, which involved heavily studying the characters to write believable scenarios and dialogue. They also carefully weighed the benefits of creating new characters to flesh out Sylas’ backstory versus bringing in existing characters from the League universe. The end goal was to create characters that would challenge Sylas and bring out different sides of his character, some of whom I met in the demo.
Based on what I’ve tried so far, Mageseeker promises to be an action-packed RPG that should appeal to both League and non-League players alike. I’m already ready to play the full 12- to 15-hour campaign when it comes out next month.
The Mageseeker: A League of Legends Story launches on April 18, 2023 for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 , Xbox, Xbox Series X |S, and PC via Steam.
Editors' Recommendations Get an exclusive new look at Song of Nunu: A League of Legends Story This breezy 3D platformer wears its simplicity as a badge of honor League of Legends’ new Arena mode emphasizes bite-sized, intense action The Lord of the Rings: Gollum is unintentionally delightful You can still get a Thunder Shotgun in Fortnite Chapter 4 Season 2. Here’s how Features Microsoft Nintendo Nintendo Switch PC Gaming Sony Sony PlayStation Xbox Gaming Riot Forge, Riot Games' indie publisher focused on making League of Legends spinoffs with smaller teams, unveiled its 2023 lineup today. We learned about The Mageseeker: A League of Legends Story, an action RPG from the developers of indie gem Moonlighter, for the first time, and Riot Games revealed more specific release windows for Convergence: A League of Legends Story and Song of Nunu: A League of Legends Story.
The first of these games to release will be Digital Sun's The Mageseeker, which comes out this spring. The game focuses on League of Legends champion Sylas, revolutionary fighting back against the kingdom of Demacia for taking advantage of mages. We only see a little bit of gameplay in Riot Forge's 2023 lineup trailer, but it definitely looks somewhat similar to Moonlighter with its isometric action centered around Sylas' change and magical abilities.
Riot Forge Games 2023 | The Year Ahead Trailer The next Riot Forge game to come out will be Double Stallion Games' Convergence sometime this summer. The game is a 2D platformer with time-based platforming and combat that follows Ekko, a character you'll recognize if you watched Arcane. Finally, Song of Nunu will launch this fall. It's a third-person adventure game from Tequila Works, a developer that's mastered that formula with titles like Rime and Gylt. It follows a young boy named Nunu and his yeti Willump as they search for Nunu's mother, so this game is bound to pack an emotional punch.
While only two games have come from Riot Forge so far, its catalog of games finally seems to be ramping up this year. The Mageseeker, Convergence, and Song of Nunu will all be released for PC, PS4, PS5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X, and Nintendo Switch over the course of 2023.
Gaming It’s been over two years since the start of the current console generation, which launched with a rocky start at the end of 2020. You'd think it's been more than long enough to understand what it's all about, but for many, there's still confusion. That might be changing this year. As Tomas Franzese wrote earlier this month, 2023 could be the year where we finally see what games define this generation’s consoles, at least in terms of exclusives. He also noted that games could stop being cross-platform, launching on just current-gen consoles instead of simultaneously on last-gen ones.
While that'll finally give us some memorable games, it doesn't bring us closer to defining the hardware itself. Besides a few extra teraflops and new ultra-fast SSDs, there isn’t much that helps the PS5 and Xbox Series X and S stand out from their predecessors. Sure, the PS5 looks like a giant spaceship, and the Xbox Series X is built like a fridge, but we didn’t know what these devices could offer that the PS4 and Xbox One couldn’t besides some pretty lighting effects and virtually non-existent loading times.
Gaming Some games are meant to be played once, savored, and then shelved for the next one -- not unlike a book or a movie. But many other games are meant to be played and replayed over a long period of time, offering wildly different experiences each time you sit down and boot them up. There were many ongoing games to pick from in 2022, a lot of which include live service elements like online multiplayer, microtransactions, and regular content updates -- though not all are worth investing your time into.
Even though there are plenty of stinkers out there to avoid, there were also several ongoing games that kept our attention in 2022, ranging across several genres. From globe-trotting online roleplaying games to far simpler games you can play at a café bench, here are 10 games that set the bar for live service in 2022.
Fortnite Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
