Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features One Piece Odyssey’s great ending would have made for a perfect anime arc By Jess Reyes Close One Piece Odyssey might be the best One Piece game of all time, but it didn’t stop me from wishing its story was saved for an anime instead. The RPG smartly incorporates existing One Piece lore and builds its characters well enough to appeal to both fans and newcomers alike. However, some meaningless video game fluff makes it difficult to get fully attached to its world and characters, especially in its slow beginning.
Setting sail isn’t so easy A great anime filler arc True friendship never ends I don’t think that I’d feel that way, though, if it didn’t include such a strong, thematically sound ending.
One Piece Odyssey ‘s great story stands in contrast to some of its more tedious video game elements, making me wish I could have seen it play out as an anime arc.
This piece contains spoilers for One Piece Odyssey.
Setting sail isn’t so easy One Piece Odyssey strands the series’ Straw Hats gang on the island of Waford. Before the crew can repair its destroyed pirate ship, a mysterious girl named Lim steals their powers and disperses them throughout the island and the land of Memoria as cube fragments. The only way to collect all the cube fragments is to find them scattered throughout the different settings, defeat the island guardians, and venture into Memoria using Lim’s powers.
Memoria, a land constructed from memories, reunites the Straw Hats with old foes and friends in some of the most emotional arcs in One Piece history. That’s actually the source of one of One Piece Odyssey ‘s main issues: a series of half-baked translations of preexisting stories into engaging gameplay.
In our four-star review , we note that the game suffers from a slow start but picks up the pace after its lengthy Alabasta chapter.
One Piece Odyssey didn’t appeal to me as much as it did to our reviewer, but we agreed that the game was an “entertaining one thanks to the solid characters, plot, and world-building.” The backtracking problem becomes a glaring issue in Alabasta and continues as far as Water Seven. At that point, players could easily tire of running throughout the entire town and into the sewers to progress what would’ve taken half as much time to watch.
After all, anime would focus solely on story. You wouldn’t need to run back and forth for a pair of keys or pester NPCs for clues.
A great anime filler arc Even with its pacing issues, One Piece Odyssey respectfully handles its source material. It references other characters, entities, and stories that point to the existing One Piece canon. It also builds the plot around two original characters, Lim and Adio, which separates the story from the main plot of the manga and anime. You’d think this would detract from its appeal as an anime arc, but that just means that Odyssey ‘s story doesn’t conflict with the wide plot of the franchise.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Even better, Lim and Adio visibly develop as characters over the course of the game. Lim gets most of the attention because she accompanies the Straw Hats throughout their most pivotal moments in Memoria, and ultimately learns the value of friendship (more specifically, “nakama” or friends so close they might as well be family) as a result.
Meanwhile, Adio doesn’t travel with Luffy’s crew as much but is still believably integrated into the One Piece world. He has connections with One Piece villain Smoker and a clear understanding of the World Government that affected many of the Straw Hats’ adventures in the anime and manga.
One Piece Odyssey ‘s story also takes care to weave Waford’s lore into the Straw Hats’ memories, like tucking a book about Waford into an unsuspecting Water Seven library. It also plays into the characters’ strengths, like handing resident archaeologist Nico Robin the reigns for unraveling the mystery behind Waford’s connection to the sky people and Weatheria.
One Piece Odyssey ultimately wraps up loose ends at its conclusion before the Straw Hats leave Waford, answering questions like where Lim came from, Adio’s true intentions, and what the Straw Hats’ role was in the overall adventure. It ends with Lim and Adio adopting new perspectives, even if the latter ends up leaving the island before the epilogue because he can’t give up his dream of avenging his people.
True friendship never ends The ending itself is what particularly resonates for me. In case it wasn’t obvious from his Yu-Gi-Oh! villain look, Adio is the antagonist of One Piece Odyssey.
 He manipulated Lim into stealing the Straw Hats’ powers and leading them into defeating the island’s guardians. This becomes increasingly obvious toward the later half of the game as he takes steps to awaken Waford’s god-like sentient weapon, the Divine Breath.
Adio seeks to destroy the world and recreate it with the weapon’s weather-manipulating abilities, a goal he feels strongly enough about that he’s willing to sacrifice his bond with Lim for it. He might’ve succeeded, if it weren’t for the real Lim.
That’s right: The Lim Luffy and the gang knew wasn’t actually the real Lim. She was a copy created by the Priestess of Waford, who looks exactly like her but with red eyes instead of blue.
Adio shoots Lim to prevent her from stealing his powers. However, perhaps because of her adventuring alongside Luffy through Memoria, she still cares about Adio despite his betrayal. She uses her last words to ask Luffy to bring Adio back to his senses before turning into a cube (because she’s not actually a real person). Then begins the arc where the Straw Hats have to defeat Adio and reign in the Divine Breath.
After Luffy defeats Adio, he admits that the bond he mocked was truthfully stronger than his own convictions of vengeance. Priestess Lim speaks to him on her other’s behalf, pointing out that he could’ve easily killed her but didn’t shoot, in a vital point. Luffy says something similar, suggesting that Adio couldn’t win against them because of his bond with Lim — that he couldn’t actually pull the trigger on them in the end.
One Piece Odyssey leaves that up to the player’s interpretation, but we’re led to believe this is probably the case based on framing. Adio has a flashback with Lim in his final clash with Luffy. Like the Priestess pointed out , he has the skill to kill her when he shoots Lim, yet he doesn’t. He feebly remarks, “Sometimes, I miss,” and hobbles off with the beat-up Divine Breath before Luffy and the gang revive Lim. By the time the Straw Hats leave Waford, the Priestess and Lim decide to rebuild Waford and hope for Adio’s return because he’s their “nakama.” One Piece Odyssey isn’t canon. Producer Katsuaki Tsuzuki confirmed as much in an interview with Ungeek before the game’s launch. It didn’t directly progress anything related to the main One Piece plot or the main cast as people, even if they affected Lim and Adio. However, it ends on an emotionally satisfying note that does the characters justice. Heck, even the action-packed cutscenes look like something straight out of the anime.
I’m satisfied with the story, but with a feeling that I could have gotten more out of One Piece Odyssey had I watched it rather than trudged through its RPG parts. It would’ve saved hours of my time to experience a heartwarming and canon-worthy story without the grind. Bandai Namco crafted a fairly robust RPG that freshens many mechanics that have since grown stale in the turn-based genre, but sometimes you just want to know what happens without backtracking through the desert to get there.
Editors' Recommendations One Piece Odyssey’s streamlined RPG gameplay has me hooked One Piece Odyssey is a new JRPG based on the popular anime Features Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Gaming Who doesn't love LEGO? If you're looking for the perfect gift for your kids or yourself, you can save some money during LEGO Black Friday deals. We've pulled some of our favorite options from the most popular LEGO sets, including Marvel, Star Wars, Technics and Speed Champions. There are also some generic sets at the bottom. Most of these are part of the massive Walmart Black Friday LEGO sale, so check that out too. While there are early Black Friday deals, they may not last until the actual shopping event. If you see something, you should grab it today.
Black Friday LEGO Marvel deals The LEGO and Marvel collaboration has brought joy to children for years now. If you want a cheap way to collect figures from your favorite Marvel comics, movies and TV shows, LEGO sets are a great place to start. Below we've pulled some cheap sets that include adult-focused sets like the Infinity Gauntlet and full-size action figures as well as some kid-friendly sets that focus on a mini-fig with some scenery.
Gaming November 19 marks the 25th anniversary of the original Half-Life, and to celebrate, Valve made a special announcement. No, Half-Life 3 was not announced. But Valve celebrated the anniversary with a massive update to the game on PC and a new documentary detailing its development. The best part: It's all available for free.
Half-Life's 25th-anniversary update incorporates the Half-Life: Uplink demo that Valve gave away as a CD via magazine and hardware manufacturer promotions in the 1990s and introduces many multiplayer maps. That includes four brand-new maps -- Contamination, Pool Party, Disposal, and Rocket Frenzy -- and three more maps that were previously only included in the Half-Life: Further Data CD release: Double Cross, Rust Mill, and Xen DM. It's also now possible to play as a Space Biker, Prototype Barney, Skeleton, and Too Much Coffee Man and use dozens of Further Data sprays in Half-Life: Deathmatch.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
