Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Features Pokémon showed why it’s still unstoppable in 2022 By Jess Reyes Close Remember Temtem , the monster-taming MMO that got its 1.0 release earlier this year? Don’t feel too bad if you don’t.
Pokémon successes of the year Monster tamers are still catching up What was once hailed as the “Pokémon killer” officially launched in September too little fanfare. Despite the initial spike in interest after its early access release, it didn’t quite reach the cultural status of the game it was trying to build on. Meanwhile, Pokémon Scarlet and Violet broke records as Nintendo’s fastest-selling games of all time, despite being the most heavily criticized entries in the series’ history due to performance issues and glitches. Not even bad press could keep Pikachu down.
Pokémon is still king in the monster-catching market and it doesn’t seem like that’ll be challenged any time soon.
Temtem and Coromon both came out this year, but neither generated large-scale mainstream interest like Pokémon despite their own successes. For all the complaints that Pokéfans have, 2022 proves that the series is still doing something right. That isn’t just on account of the cute monster designs or massive marketing budget; it’s a reflection of developer Game Freak’s design chops, which are easy to take for granted.
Pokémon Presents August 2023: how to watch and what to expect Pokémon Scarlet and Violet’s DLC lets players venture outside of Paldea It’s official: The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom will cost $70 Pokémon successes of the year Pokémon has its faults, but its underlying skeleton has kept it afloat for years. Its core game design makes it pleasant to play without too much investment. Players can evolve their first-party members within a few hours of starting fights with wild Pokémon and trainers because of generous experience boosts and lower evolution thresholds. Gym leaders, which act as its version of bosses, also appear within a brief enough time of each other to move the story forward and grind levels up as a “reward.” If each reward in the journey is a hike away from the next, players are going to run out of stamina fast.
For the first time, Game Freak published two distinct major Pokémon projects in one year: Pokémon Legends: Arceus in January and Pokémon Scarlet and Violet in November. Even with obvious flaws, each of those games modeled how skilled Game Freak is when it comes to creating a tightly paced game full of progression hooks.
Pokémon Legends: Arceus is technically a spinoff, but it achieves much more than that the typical sub series because of how it mirrors mainline games. Game Freak’s first step into open-world Pokémon games received a warm welcome thanks to its thoughtful design and new systems that actually matched the world it belonged in — even with the arguably ugly graphics.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Catching and battling Pokémon never felt pointless because of the rewards for doing so. Its unique Rank System rewarded players who completed research tasks, such as catching a specific number of Pokémon or watching them use a specific type of move. I didn’t mind throwing a ball at 10 Buizels in a row because there was always a good incentive for me to do so. It was also easier to capture highe- level wild Pokémon without engaging with them, which gave players the opportunity to catch stronger allies instead of grinding levels in a traditional RPG way.
Scarlet and Violet didn’t garner as much praise as its early-year counterpart, but it also nailed the concept of regularly giving players a “reward” for each step of their journey. Its three-storyline structure meant that there was almost always another part of the narrative ready to unlock without the need to grind between gym leaders.
Our review praised the newfound freedom in the games, which let the player play at their own level of difficulty as a side effect of the open-world aspect. After all, you can to run into an area of level 40 Pokémon at level 20 if you wanted to.
Pokémon games typically involve some level of grinding. I used to tread back and forth in the grass until my starter could one-hit KO everything before moving on to the next city. Rinse and repeat. However, Pokémon Scarlet and Violet had enough of a level disparity between its beginner and intermediate areas that I could just hop from place to place without fighting wild Pokémon for hours. Even the varying level bosses encouraged players to keep progressing through the different storylines instead of grinding in one place.
Monster tamers are still catching up Those are some small examples of how finely tuned the Pokémon series is at its core — details that you start to notice when placing it next to the games that attempt to one-up it.
Temtem , for instance, is a much slower experience. It looks like everything you could want from a Pokémon-style game on on the package: a young child leaves home to fulfill their dream of becoming a Temtem master and defeat gym leaders across the archipelago. However, it can take a long time to really get that journey going due to its slow progression pace. Players voiced similar complaints about its grindiness and lack of content that made it difficult to commit to.
At the 10-hour mark, I had only fought one gym leader and evolved one creature. I’ve played every mainline Pokémon game since Pokémon Red and Blue.
 I could’ve beaten at least three gym leaders and evolved half my team in the same amount of time in those games. It didn’t help that fast travel and teleportation, which have become staples in modern games, weren’t unlockable until later in the story. Smoke Bombs, which are similar to Escape Ropes in Pokémon, seemed primitive in comparison. It’s not like it had the option to ride through regions on the backs of Pokémon like in Pokémon Legends or Scarlet and Violet.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Coromon , another monster-catching game that received a similarly middling critical reception , appealed to Game Boy Advance-era Pokémon fans, enough that some hail it as the “best Pokémon clone.” Still, some players had similar reservations spurred by the game’s approach to progression specifically.
Nintendo Life mentioned a story that moved at a “snail’s pace” and the fact that it took “hours” to move between areas because of the difficulty spike.
Both Temtem and Coromon struggle to offer enough incentives for players to stay invested in their adventures. Some players like a higher difficulty and grind on its own, but moving at too slow a pace could push those looking for a more casual experience elsewhere. That’s something that the Pokémon series has always understood and held true to in the face of criticism. A game like this needs to give players something to cling to early in the game so that they feel like they’re moving forward. You can try to replicate Pokémon’s monster hunting and turn-based battles, but those aren’t the only elements that make the series work — even at its lowest points.
Game Freak proved that it knows how to keep Pokémon engaging this year — and that it’s trying to improve. It tends to “soft launch” new features and fine-tune them later, like it did with phasing out hidden machines and adding in traditional fast travel. The design expertise still reigns; now Pokémon just has to evolve to a higher-quality standard.
Editors' Recommendations Pokémon Scarlet and Violet DLC The Teal Mask arrives in September Tears of the Kingdom’s Ultrahand creations reveal its biggest strength Pokémon Presents February 2023: how to watch and what to expect After 25 seasons, Ash Ketchum is retiring from Pokémon From The Last of Us to Immortality, these are 2022’s most innovative games Features Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming Some games are meant to be played once, savored, and then shelved for the next one -- not unlike a book or a movie. But many other games are meant to be played and replayed over a long period of time, offering wildly different experiences each time you sit down and boot them up. There were many ongoing games to pick from in 2022, a lot of which include live service elements like online multiplayer, microtransactions, and regular content updates -- though not all are worth investing your time into.
Even though there are plenty of stinkers out there to avoid, there were also several ongoing games that kept our attention in 2022, ranging across several genres. From globe-trotting online roleplaying games to far simpler games you can play at a café bench, here are 10 games that set the bar for live service in 2022.
Fortnite Gaming Like each mainline game in the series, Pokémon Violet and Scarlet introduce a whole batch of new monsters for trainers to catch. Those include fresh faces like Pawmot and Bombirdier, as well as new Paldean variants of classics like Wooper and Tauros. They even add some new evolutions for old monsters like Primeape and Bisharp.
There are plenty of excellent designs to highlight, but we need to talk about its absolute goofiest one: Dudunsparce.
Gaming Pokémon Violet and Scarlet are currently the talk of the gaming world, though that conversation is mostly about the bizarre slew of technical issues. While those are understandably the focus, they shouldn't totally paper over one of the best aspects of the games: They've got a lot of good birds.
Yes, Pokémon's ninth generation feels as though it's been specifically built with bird-watchers in mind. While previous games in the series tend to have one all-star flying evolution line and a smattering of winged friends hanging out in the world, Paldea might be Pokémon's most avian friendly region yet.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
