Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more By Blair Marnell and Jason Struss Close Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix’s The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster , dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix , Amazon Prime Video , Hulu , Max , Apple TV+ , Disney+ , Paramount+ , and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you’ve been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers.
 In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you’re done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week , as well as the best shows on Netflix , best shows on Hulu , best shows on Amazon Prime Video , and best shows on Disney+.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Monarch: Legacy of Monsters tv-14 2023 For All Mankind tv-ma 2019 The Crown tv-ma 2016 Scott Pilgrim Takes Off tv-ma 2023 Julia tv-ma 2022 Lawmen: Bass Reeves tv-ma 2023 Apple TV+ Monarch: Legacy of Monsters (2023) new tv-14 1 Season Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Anna Sawai, Kiersey Clemons, Ren Watabe Matt Fraction, Chris Black watch on Apple TV+ watch on Apple TV+ There are two big surprises in store for fans of Legendary’s MonsterVerse in Monarch: Legacy of Monsters.
 The first is that the show doesn’t shy away from linking directly to both the 2014 Godzilla reboot and to Kong: Skull Island.
 The other surprise is that this series is an unexpectedly compelling drama in its own right. The story begins one year after the events of Godzilla , as two strangers, Cate (Anna Sawai) and Kentaro (Ren Watabe), discover that they are half-siblings through their late father, Hiroshi (Takehiro Hira).
As the siblings compare notes, they discover that Hiroshi was closely linked with Monarch, the organization that has been tracking the monstrous Titans for decades. Cate and Kentaro also meet Lee Shaw (Kurt Russell), one of Monarch’s former operatives. In flashbacks, Russell’s son, Wyatt Russell, plays the younger Lee as he takes part in the origins of Monarch itself.
Read less For All Mankind (2019) new tv-ma 4 Seasons Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, War & Politics Joel Kinnaman, Wrenn Schmidt, Coral Peña Ronald D. Moore, Ben Nedivi, Matt Wolpert watch on Apple TV+ watch on Apple TV+ Read less The Enfield Poltergeist (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Documentary watch on Apple TV+ watch on Apple TV+ Apple TV+ tends to shy away from horror movies, but it’s serving up a spooky Halloween treat with its new documentary series, The Enfield Poltergeist.
 If you’ve seen The Conjuring 2 or any of the previous films and TV series based on the Enfield Poltergeist, then you may recall that it was a widely reported haunting that centered on two children, Janet and Margaret Hodgson.
The new documentary features original recordings of the haunting, as well as interviews with people who experienced it firsthand. This may not make you a believer in the afterlife, but it’s still a good ghost story.
Read less Netflix The Crown (2016) new tv-ma 6 Seasons Drama Imelda Staunton, Jonathan Pryce, Lesley Manville Peter Morgan watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Netflix’s prestige royal family drama, The Crown , kicks off its final season in the late 1990s, as Diana, Princess of Wales ( Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 ‘s Elizabeth Debicki) proves to be more headstrong than the royal family can handle, even after she has divorced Prince Charles (Dominic West).
The first half of the season doesn’t waste any time showing Diana’s 1997 death in a car accident alongside her lover, Dodi Fayed (Khalid Abdalla), before flashing back and chronicling the events that led up to that fateful night in Paris. The new episodes also explore the fallout of what came after. Four new episodes of The Crown are available to stream right now, while the remaining six episodes of the series will premiere on December 14.
Read less Scott Pilgrim Takes Off (2023) new tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Michael Cera, Mary Elizabeth Winstead, Ellen Wong Bryan Lee O'Malley, BenDavid Grabinski watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Second chances are rare for franchises that failed the first time out of the gate, but Scott Pilgrim Takes Off is giving series creator Bryan Lee O’Malley another shot at adapting his hit graphic novels. This time, O’Malley’s art style is being used for the animation, while the show is retaining the all-star cast from the 2010 live-action Scott Pilgrim vs. the World film.
Scott Pilgrim (Michael Cera) is a typical slacker who isn’t trying very hard to get ahead in life. But as soon as Scott meets Ramona Flowers (Mary Elizabeth Winstead), he’s immediately smitten with her and willing to do anything to win her heart. Unfortunately for Scott, “anything” entails literal battles with Ramona’s seven evil exes.
Read less Blue Eye Samurai (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Action & Adventure, Animation, Drama Maya Erskine, George Takei, Masi Oka Michael Green, Amber Noizumi watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Blue Eye Samurai only looks like a normal anime series, but this show has a distinct flavor all of its own and plays more like a one-hour drama series. Maya Erskine stars as Mizu, a female mixed-race swordmaster who passes herself off as a man as she goes off in search of revenge. Because this show takes place in the period of Japanese history when the borders were shut off to the rest of the world, Mizu must also hide her distinctive blue eyes that mark her as only half-Japanese.
Mizu’s incredible fighting skills inspire a disabled man, Ringo (Masi Oka), to accompany her. She also defeats a warrior, Taigen (Darren Barnet), so completely that his old life is ruined. But when Taigen catches up to Mizu, they may have more in common than they think.
Read less All the Light We Cannot See (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Louis Hofmann, Aria Mia Loberti, Mark Ruffalo Steven Knight watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The Pulitzer Prize-winning novel All the Light We Cannot See has come to Netflix as an event miniseries with Aria Mia Loberti as Marie-Laure LeBlanc, a blind French girl who doesn’t let her disability get in the way of joining the French resistance during the darkest days of World War II.
Marie-Laure’s father, Daniel LeBlanc (Mark Ruffalo), has a different agenda as he attempts to hide a valuable gem from the Nazis while taking shelter with Etienne LeBlanc (Hugh Laurie). But in wartime, nothing ever goes to plan, and Marie-Laure isn’t the only one who has to make some hard choices.
Read less Max (formerly HBO and HBO Max) Julia (2022) new tv-ma 2 Seasons Drama Sarah Lancashire, David Hyde Pierce, Brittany Bradford Daniel Goldfarb watch on max watch on max The Max dramedy Julia is back for a second seaso, chronicling the life of Julia Child (Sarah Lancashire), a famous cook who popularized French cooking in America with her cookbooks and her TV series, The French Chef.
Julia also features Frasier veteran David Hyde Pierce as Julia’s husband, Paul Child, with recurring Frasier and Cheers guest star Babe Neuwirth as Julia’s closest friend, Avis DeVoto.
Season 1 ended with Julia ready to walk away from her show after a single season, before Paul talked her into continuing to pursue her dream. And so Julia continues hosting her TV series in the new season, but there are always new challenges on the horizon.
Read less Rap Sh!t (2022) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy Aida Osman, KaMillion, Jonica Booth Issa Rae watch on max watch on max Insecure ’s Issa Rae created Rap Sh!t for Max, but she’s strictly behind the scenes for this comedy series. Aida Osman and KaMillion co-headline the show as Shawna Clark and Mia Knight, respectively. Although Shawna and Mia have been distant for years, they both have a passion for rap and a desire to live out their dreams.
After discovering how well they work together, Shawna and Mia form their own group. However, some bad choices, especially by Shawna, threaten to tear them apart as the series returns for season 2.
Read less The Gilded Age (2022) tv-ma 2 Seasons Drama Louisa Jacobson, Denée Benton, Taissa Farmiga Julian Fellowes watch on max watch on max HBO’s The Gilded Age is back for more late 19th-century intrigue between two of the most wealthy families in New York: the Russells and the van Rhijn-Brooks. Following last season’s heartbreak, Marian Brook (Louisa Jacobson) is still lovelorn and living with her aunts, Ada Brook ( And Just Like That ‘s Cynthia Nixon) and Agnes van Rhijn (Christine Baranski).
Conversely, Bertha Russell (Carrie Coon) and her family have all of the money they will ever need, but little of the prestige that goes with being in high society. And despite some rapprochement between them, Bertha still bears a grudge towards the van Rhijn-Brook family for standing in the way of her ambitions.
Read less Amazon Prime Video Invincible (2021) tv-ma 2 Seasons Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure, Drama Steven Yeun, Sandra Oh, J.K. Simmons watch on Amazon watch on Amazon The reigning king of the superhero shows, Invincible , returns for its second season with a horrific look at an alternate Earth where Mark Grayson/Invincible ( Beef ‘s Steven Yeun) sided with his father, Omni-Man (J.K. Simmons), in the conquest of Earth. Back in the primary timeline, Mark is emotionally bereft after the fight with his father as he struggles to recapture his purpose as a hero.
Meanwhile, the Guardians of the Globe face a leadership shake-up and the Mauler Twins (Kevin Michael Richardson) may have just created a new nemesis for Invincible. Get ready for some fireworks, because the action is about to begin.
Read less Upload (2020) tv-ma 3 Seasons Comedy, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Robbie Amell, Andy Allo, Allegra Edwards Greg Daniels watch on Amazon watch on Amazon The digital afterlife hasn’t been easy for Nathan Brown (Robbie Amell) in Prime Video’s Upload.
 And things aren’t getting any simpler in the newly launched third season. After being tied to his living girlfriend, Ingrid Kannerman (Allegra Edwards), even after his death, Nathan is finally free to pursue a relationship with Nora Antony (Andy Allo).
Because Nathan’s mind exists in the digital realm, Ingrid now has access to a copy of Nathan, who doesn’t realize that he broke up with her. Is this show big enough for two Nathans? What’s going to happen when the original Nathan meets his new doppelganger? Read less Paramount+ Lawmen: Bass Reeves (2023) new tv-ma 1 Season Drama David Oyelowo, Lauren E. Banks, Demi Singleton Chad Feehan watch on Paramount+ watch on Paramount+ Taylor Sheridan’s next western TV series Lawmen: Bass Reeves is already a hit on Paramount+. David Oyelowo stars as Bass Reeves, one of the first Black Deputy U.S. Marshals whose legend was built ten years after the Civil War. The real Reeves was recruited in part because he spoke multiple Native languages, and he proved to be one of the best detectives of his era.
Plot details for the series are currently under wraps, but the cast includes Dennis Quaid as Sherrill Lynn, Forrest Goodluck as Billy Crow, Lauren E. Banks as Jennie Reeves, Barry Pepper as Esau Pierce, Grantham Coleman as Edwin Jones, Demi Singleton as Sally Reeves, and Donald Sutherland as Judge Isaac Parker.
Read less Fellow Travelers (2023) 1 Season Drama Matt Bomer, Jonathan Bailey, Jelani Alladin Ron Nyswaner watch on Paramount+ watch on Paramount+ Like sweeping historical dramas with charismatic lead actors, a compelling dramatic story, and steamy love scenes? Look no further than Fellow Travelers , the 8-part limited series that is streaming on Paramount+. The series stars Matt Bomer as Hawkins Fuller, an ambitious junior politician who is trying to live lived as a closeted gay man in 1950s Washington. He meets, and quickly falls in love with, earnest Tim Laughlin ( Bridgerton ‘s Jonathan Bailey), whose optimism and faith both attract and repel Hawkins over the years.
The show, which spans multiple decades from the 1950s to the 1980s, marries the political and the personal, offering a unique perspective of the late 20th century that touches on topics such as sexuality, race, and religion.
Read less Frasier (2023) tv-14 1 Season Comedy Kelsey Grammer, Jack Cutmore-Scott, Nicholas Lyndhurst Glen Charles, Les Charles watch on Paramount+ watch on Paramount+ 20 years after Frasier wrapped its eleven-season run on NBC, Paramount+’s revival series has finally arrived. And for the first time since Cheers , Frasier Crane (Kelsey Grammer) is back in Boston for more than just a visit. Following the death of his father, Frasier attempts to mend his relationship with his son, Freddy (Jack Cutmore-Scott), who has become a blue-collar firefighter.
Frasier may be retired as a psychiatrist, but he soon gets an opportunity to explore a new career in higher education as a professor at Harvard University. This is the third act that Frasier has been waiting for, and he intends to make the most of it.
Read less Hulu Shoresy (2022) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy, Drama Jared Keeso, Harlan Blayne Kytwayhat Jared Keeso watch on Hulu watch on Hulu It’s almost impossible for a comedy to be more Canadian than Shoresy , a spinoff from Letterkenny that puts Jared Keeso’s “Shoresy” Shore into his own story. Keeso not only created and headlines the series, he also wrote and directed every episode of the show to date through the end of season 2.
Within the series, Shoresy goes to extremes to keep his new Triple-A hockey team, the Sudbury Bulldogs, from folding. Shoresy even promises that the Bulldogs will never lose again if he’s in charge of the team, but that’s a vow that Shoresy and his teammates will have a difficult time living up to.
Read less Goosebumps (2023) tv-14 1 Season Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Comedy Zack Morris, Isa Briones, Miles McKenna Nicholas Stoller, Rob Letterman watch on Hulu watch on Hulu In a strange case of corporate synergy, Sony Pictures TV is producing the new Goosebumps series, which is being streamed on both Hulu and Disney+. This time, R.L. Stine’s kid-friendly horror stories are being reimagined as a serialized series that is built around the mystery of what happened to a teenager, Harold Biddle (Ben Cockell), in 1993.
As Harold’s angry spirit haunts the town, Isaiah (Zack Morris), Margot (Isa Briones), James (Miles McKenna). Isabella (Ana Yi Puig), and Lucas (Will Price) find themselves drawn into the mystery, which may have links to their parents.
Read less Disney+ Loki (2021) tv-14 2 Seasons Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Tom Hiddleston, Sophia Di Martino, Wunmi Mosaku Michael Waldron watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Mistakes were made at the end of time, and the MCU became a multiverse in the season 1 finale of Loki.
 Season 2 finds Loki (Tom Hiddleston) in a greatly changed TVA that now seems to be devoted to Kang (Jonathan Majors). Even Loki’s first true friend, Mobius M. Mobius (Owen Wilson), no longer knows who he is. More alarmingly, Loki himself appears to be unstuck in time as he disappears and reappears at random intervals.
Season 2 introduces Ke Huy Quan as Ouroboros, the man who invented the TVA’s time travel tech. But even he may not be able to help Loki find his female variant, Sylvie (Sophia Di Martino), whom Loki fell in love with last season.
Read less Editors' Recommendations The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best shows on Max (formerly HBO Max) right now HBO Max Free Trial: Can you stream hit shows for free? The 10 best Netflix drama shows right now (October 2023) The best Amazon Prime original series right now Amazon Amazon Prime Video Best Products Disney+ Hulu Netflix Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment Netflix may rule the roost with its selections of rom-coms and romantic drama movies, but its selection of romance TV shows isn't quite as extensive. Fortunately, the best romance shows on Netflix is an international affair, as the streamer pulls in original series from around the world to help fill that gap.
Without that international flavor, we wouldn't have this month's vampire romantic comedy, Tooth Pari: When Love Bites, which comes from India. Then there's the Australian surfing romance Surviving Summer. Glamorous, on the other hand, could have come from any country, as long as it stars an original cast member from Sex and the City.
Entertainment The romantic comedy is not what it used to be. The genre used to be a regular feature at the box office, and we could almost always count on getting at least one good one a year.
While that may no longer be the case, that doesn’t mean that the genre is totally dead, as 2023 has produced a couple of well-above-average rom-coms. We highlight the three best from the year so far below: Rye Lane (2023) Rye Lane | Official Trailer | Hulu Entertainment Over two decades ago, HBO boldly staked out its own corner of the television landscape with cinematic shows that quickly outshined network dramas. That’s why The Sopranos, The Wire, and The Larry Sanders Show are still fondly remembered today. In the present, HBO is still the high watermark for comedy and drama, with shows like House of the Dragon, The White Lotus, and more keeping the brand alive and well. And although only a few shows are offering new episodes this month, there’s never a bad time to get up to date with the best HBO series streaming right now.
Not finding what you're looking for on HBO? We regularly update our lists of the best shows on Netflix, the best shows on Amazon Prime Video, the best shows on Disney+, and the best shows on Hulu as well.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
