Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Sea of Stars tips and tricks: 8 things you should know before playing By Jess Reyes Close Sabotage Studios’ Sea of Stars might just be the indie contender for game of the year. The Chrono Trigger -inspired RPG earned high praise from critics and continued to impress general audiences following its August 2023 release. Its engaging combat and storytelling make it a perfect indie for RPG fanatics, especially those who appreciate a balance of serious and silly flavors in their stories. However, it isn’t perfect. There are some parts that are more difficult to figure out than others. To help make things easier, we’ve compiled this list of top tips and tricks that can make your playthrough a lot less painful. Here are eight things we wish we knew before playing Sea of Stars.
Load up on Abacuses early in the game Look at the map if you forget where to go Timed ‘hits’ also apply to healing Camp if you don’t remember your objective Turn on Sequent Flare Only reel within the highlighted zone Save as much as possible Hold out for the story Load up on Abacuses early in the game Sea of Stars has three kinds of accessories. One is your armor, which typically boosts your physical and magical defense stats. Another type of accessory covers belts, scarves, and other accessories that boost stats from HP to attack. The last kind is a special kind of “golden ring” accessory that bestows your characters with special abilities.
That’s where Abacuses fit in. These babies enable characters to view enemy HP bars, except for bosses. Special accessories are generally more difficult to find until later in the game and tend to be expensive. Abacuses make for relatively cheap, useful accessories that you can equip for all your characters until you find better special accessories to replace them with.
Should you pull for Fu Xuan in Honkai: Star Rail 1.3? Before starting Baldur’s Gate 3, you’ll need to know these Dungeons & Dragons basics 5 underrated Xbox Game Pass games you should play while you still can You can buy Abacuses early in the game from the merchant in Stonemason’s Outpost, a town full of mole people. At that point, you’ll will only have your protagonist plus two allies. That will eventually grow into six total characters that you can juggle at will. Buy however many Abacuses you think you’ll need. Personally, I wish I’d bought five.
Look at the map if you forget where to go Image used with permission by copyright holder Sea of Stars doesn’t have a convenient to-do list or quest marker to remind you where you need to go to progress in the main quest. Unlike The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild , it doesn’t have an indicator for where you should go at each step of the way. It does have a star symbol that marks the general direction of where you need to go, though.
Just open your map from the main menu. There should be a single yellow star on the map that leads to the marked destination. However, it won’t necessarily tell you where to go in the area to progress the plot. For example, you might need to visit a particular island, but the star won’t tell you which section on the island you have to visit. You can follow our next tip if you need help remembering your objective.
Timed ‘hits’ also apply to healing One of Sea of Stars ’ signature mechanics is the extra damage it rewards you for pressing the attack button at the same time your character executes their attack. You can also trigger timed blocks for when the enemy attacks your characters to reduce damage. A lesser-known trick is that there’s also such a thing as timed healing, where you can recover more health if you press your attack button at an opportune time when your characters are restoring health to themselves and their allies. The timing might vary depending on the particular healing move or item, but it’s worth a shot when you need that extra healing.
Camp if you don’t remember your objective Image used with permission by copyright holder Sometimes, even if you’re in the right place, you might not remember what you have to do to progress the plot. If so, you can camp and talk to your teammates to refresh your memory.
Sea of Stars offers a camp function between major areas on land so that you can save your game, cook food, talk with teammates, and listen to stories from your token historian, Teaks. It’s only accessible from section maps. Depending on your platform, there should be a designated button that the game prompts you to press for camping.
Press the camp button and wait for the game to transition to the campgrounds. You’ll have the chance to consult with your teammates there, one of which will probably tell you useful information about where you should go.
Turn on Sequent Flare Sea of Stars uses Relics to adjust the game’s difficulty , but doesn’t have an official difficulty setting. These items can enable conveniences like instant healing after battle, reduced damage, and even the ability to better see when your timed hits land.
Sequent Flare , one of the Relics you get toward the start of the game, blasts a colorful flare into the air whenever you successfully time your hits. This visual aid helps those of us who need a clearer indicator for when we time our hits correctly. Even better, it’s free! Only reel within the highlighted zone Image used with permission by copyright holder Sea of Stars ’ fishing game instructs you to steer and reel in your line when your bait is in the highlighted strip in the middle of the lake. It emphasizes the safe zone in the fishing game instructions when you open up the options menu tutorials. However, some players don’t realize that the steer and reel buttons are meant to be used separately instead of together. You should only hold the reel button when the fish is in the highlighted zone or the line will snap. As a bonus, you can quickly press the reel button when the fish jumps out of the water to stun it.
Save as much as possible Sea of Stars has autosave, but it’s not guaranteed to save at the most convenient points. You might pass through multiple puzzles and enemies before the autosave kicks in. Unfortunately, you might also be ambushed at low health or fall to an unexpectedly difficult enemy before that point. It might not seem like much of a setback to restart a couple minutes before the point where you had progressed to, but it could get annoying to play through the same course. It’ll especially get old if you happen to fall to the same opponent twice or need to repeat the same puzzles a couple times in a row because you refuse to turn down the difficulty.
With that in mind, backtrack to the latest save point if you anticipate a difficult section or just finished multiple sections of a map that you would find annoying to redo. Your progress will thank you later.
Hold out for the story This is more of a tip than a recommendation. You might find Sea of Stars ‘ premise simplistic at the beginning. However, if you hold on until at least the midpoint, you’ll witness the depth that Sabotage Studios invested into the plot. If you’re a narrative fan like me, then you might find yourself pleasantly surprised.
Sea of Stars is available for PC, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 , and Nintendo Switch.
Editors' Recommendations Should you pick Claude or Rena in Star Ocean: The Second Story R These are the only gaming laptops you should consider if you want to play Starfield Do you need to play the first two Baldur’s Gate games before playing 3? Pikmin 4 tips that newcomers and series veterans need to know before starting Should you pull for Blade or Kafka in Honkai: Star Rail 1.2? How-To Guides Entertainment Adapted from author Hugh Howey's series of books, showrunner Graham Yost's Silo wrapped up an impressive first season on Apple TV+. The Rebecca Ferguson-led sci-fi thriller brought to screen a captivating world filled with tantalizing mysteries, but there are plenty of video games for fans to get more of their dystopian fix.
These kinds of worlds and stories are ripe for immersion and deeply layered worldbuilding, as many talented developer studios have made their mark on the dystopian sci-fi subgenre. From Bethesda Game Studios' iconic Fallout series to 2K's (now Irrational Games) groundbreaking BioShock, these titles all have elements that fans of Apple TV+'s Silo should enjoy.
Fallout 3 (2008) Gaming When I was a child, I hated Cape Cod. My parents would often spend a bulk of the summer there, which meant I did too -- until I was old enough to be left on my own. My frustrations about that routine came to a head one year when my parents said we were going to spend a full month on the Cape. I protested, saying that I didn’t want to waste so much of my summer away from my friends, but my requests were shot down. I remember the arguments clearly, but I’ve fully blocked out the actual month I spent there. It’s a lost memory in my most formative years.
Dordogne - Launch Trailer Gaming In The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, potential is limitless. Thanks to Link’s Fuse ability, players can combine any item with a weapon or shield to create new objects with special abilities. I can’t even begin to count how many combinations are in the game considering that almost any resource or object can be grafted on to a wide range of tools. The possibilities feel infinite.
With so many options, you might find yourself hit with a little bit of decision paralysis. You’ll always be rewarded for your creativity, but which combos are actually useful? Here’s a little bit of a cheat sheet to get you started as you explore Hyrule. These seven crafts result in the most fundamental tools you’ll use throughout Tears of the Kingdom. They’ll solve basic problems, allowing you to easily mine for materials, explore dark caves and more. Start with these crafts and let your imagination spin off from there.
Weapon + Rock = Hammer Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
