Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 finally gets its fall release date at Summer Game Fest By Jess Reyes Close Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 officially has a release date. During the Summer Game Fest, Insomniac Games revealed that the game is scheduled to release on October 20 as a PlayStation 5 exclusive. The stream also featured a few new details about the game, including new information about its villains.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Spider-Man 2 recently appeared at the May 2023 PlayStation Showcase , so it wasn’t surprising that there wasn’t any new footage at the Summer Game Fest. However, Insomniac presented new concept art, including one with Peter Parker and Miles Morales fighting side by side and another with the two Spider-Mans fighting Venom.
Geoff Keighley talked with Bryan Intihar, the Creative Director at Insomniac Games, about a few new details about the upcoming Spider-Man game. It started with a presentation of the official box art and how it was created with the thought of two Spider-Mans. Keighley then brought up Venom and Kraven as the two main villains, though Intihar confirmed that there would be more in the game.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Intihar spoke briefly about how Kraven differed from many of the other supernatural villains that they featured in past games because his “power” is simply his prowess as the ultimate hunter. He also confirmed that Venom, who isn’t always the same person in the stories, is not an “Eddie Brock” Venom. He sidestepped answering whether or not this Venom was Osborne-related.
“Our goal was to tell an original story, something you haven’t seen in the comics or the movies yet,” Intihar said. He emphasized that “all the things you love about the character will be there,” but who they exactly are might differ from the original story.
Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 will launch on October 20, 2023, for PlayStation 5.
Editors' Recommendations The best video games of October 2023: Mario, Spider-Man 2, and more Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 lets its villains evolve in ways comics never could How to change suits in Spider-Man 2 Where to find Aunt May’s grave in Spider-Man 2 All suits in Spider-Man 2 and how to get them Comic Book Movies Marvel Sony Tech News Gaming The character of Spider-Man is only half of what makes him so interesting. Peter Parker, the man behind the mask, is just as vital to the story as his alter ego in Spider-Man 2. Just as he is in the comics and the first game, Peter is a scientist by trade, and Miles Morales is following in his footsteps in many ways, which is the perfect excuse to introduce some new science-focused puzzles into the game. One new puzzle has you examining different scenes to try and work out what exactly happened so you can determine the materials that were left behind. This puzzle is thrown at the player rather quickly and without much explanation, so we're here to brush up your molecular knowledge so you can solve these with ease.
How to solve molecular identification puzzles When you first start off ,you will be shown a 3D model of some molecule with green, red, and sometimes yellow nodes. Your goal is to remove all the red nodes without destroying any of the green. Yellow can be left or destroyed.
Gaming The opening sequence of Spider-Man 2 is a massive, technical showpiece of an encounter with the iconic villain Sandman, aka Flint Marko. Despite Peter and Miles thwarting the villain's rampage in the opening hours, his impact on the map -- and the game at large -- is far from over. Even after being sent away to prison on The Raft, Sandman has left behind mysterious crystals that are causing trouble all across the city. These become one of the many side activities you can participate in between main missions for some extra rewards like City Tokens. While they are all optional, completing each of these Marko's Memories activities does uncover a narrative about the troubled man and someone close to him that is well worth exploring. Besides, you will need to clean them all up if you want to fully complete the game anyway, so let's detail where you can find each of Marko's Memories in Spider-Man 2.
Where to find Marko's Memories There are 14 crystals scattered across the various boroughs of Spider-Man 2's New York, but just like with other collectibles like Prowler Stashes, you will have to wait for some to unlock as you make story progress. Additionally, the 14th and final memory won't be available until you've gotten all the others, and it leads to the quest's final objective. These will show up as an orange crystal on your map, but you can also spot them from all the sand they create around the area. When you approach one, you will need to fight a few waves of sand enemies before you can grab the crystal, crack it open, and hear the memory inside. Here's which borough you should be looking for them in, and how many there are in each.
Gaming It seems like a requirement for superhero games to bring in a villain just to set up challenges for the hero to complete. In the first Spider-Man, this was Taskmaster, but in Spider-Man 2, we get Mysterio and his Mysterium challenges. Not only are they simply fun ways to test your spider skills against some unique trials, but you can also get your hands on some Hero Tokens for performing well. Plus, you also get a little more insight into this unique former villain. That's all well and good, but by this point in the game, you should know that you won't be given the exact locations for each challenge right away. If your spider-sense is failing you on where to find all the Mysteriums in Spider-Man 2, we'll mark your map so you can swing straight to the action.
All Mysterium locations and requirements Mysteriums, also known as mysterium dev diaries, unlock after you complete Chapter 12 of the main game. This is the chapter where you first meet Mysterio at the carnival while playing as Miles and go through his attraction. Once you beat this chapter, a few Mysteriums will appear on your map, but more will pop up as you continue to go through the story. You need to do them all as Miles, and each rank earns you Hero Tokens. Here is where you can find them all.
Under Construction - Harlem This is a "defeat all enemies"-style challenge, but these always come with a twist. In this case, around halfway through the challenge, poison gas will fill the arena and constantly drain your health. You can heal to recover, but if you're on a good pace and have upgraded your health, then you should concentrate on using your Focus for finishers to complete the challenge faster.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
