Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News You need to try these 6 free demos before Steam Next Fest ends By Jess Reyes Close Steam Next Fest is basically E3 for indie PC gaming. But unlike other events, it’s online and everyone is invited.
Gunbrella Thirsty Suitors Mato Anomalies Potionomics Sprout Valley Cassette Beasts It’s one of the biggest digital gaming conventions of the year, with a constant schedule of streams and demos available between October 3 and 10. Thousands of indie and AA games are on display, from turn-based RPGs to platformers. With so many games to choose from, it can be difficult to figure out what to check out. To help you get started, here’s a quick list of excellent demos we’ve played that we know are worth your time. Make sure to catch them before the event ends on October 10.
Gunbrella Developer: Doinksoft Publisher: Devolver Digital Gunbrella is about exactly what you’d expect: a weapon that’s both a gun and an umbrella. The titular item sets the movement in this game apart from other side-scrolling platformers, using the umbrella for platforming and shielding and the gun part for … well, killing things. That’s not to mention that the world itself has a mysterious story involving local cults, corporations, and a man’s quest for revenge. Developer Doinksoft calls it a “noir-punk” adventure about a rogue lumberjack and his encounters with strangers, from corporate grunts to cultists. If you want a more in-depth preview, Digital Trends wrote about what makes Gunbrella special ahead of Steam Next Fest.
Try these 6 excellent, free PC game demos during Steam Next Fest 5 games you should play during the Steam Next Fest Gunbrella is currently in development for PC and Nintendo Switch. You can play the demo now on Steam.
Thirsty Suitors Developer: Outerloop Games Publisher: Annapurna Interactive Thirsty Suitors is publisher Annapurna Interactive’s latest character-driven indie game. Jala returns home to attend her sister’s wedding, unaware that it would somehow involve battling her evil exes ( much like Scott Pilgrim ) and teaming up with strange suitors in a magical adventure. On a more thematic level, it’s about a young woman navigating her love life in nontraditional ways. Expect turn-based RPG madness and plenty of “awkward flirting.” Digital Trends previewed Thirsty Suitors earlier this summer at Tribeca Fest. At the time, we compared it to Psychonauts 2 and praised how the awkward, yet relatable encounters separated it from your typical turn-based stereotype.
Thirsty Suitors is currently in development for PC, PS4, PS5 , Xbox One, Xbox Series X /S, and Nintendo Switch. You can play the demo now on Steam.
Mato Anomalies Developer: Arrow Wiz Publisher: Prime Matter Mato Anomalies takes place in a setting that resembles a gritty, futuristic Chinatown. Detective Doe is sent by his employer, Madame Nightshade, to investigate shady business at the docks of Mato when he accidentally ventures into another dimension. Gram, who frequents these dimensions called “Anomalies,” forms a partnership to help with Doe’s investigation and the rest is history.
There are a few moving parts to the gameplay, including the turn-based combat that involves managing a stamina bar and waiting a set number of turns to charge up your strongest moves. You reportedly fight in a team, but the demo only has Bane on display so far. There’s also a strategy card game that “mindhacks” participants into revealing their secrets.
Mato Anomalies is currently in development for PC, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, and Nintendo Switch. You can play the demo now on Steam.
Potionomics Developer: Voracious Games Publisher: XSEED Games Potionomics mixes deck building and resource management into a cute alchemy simulator. In the game, Sylvia comes to Rafta to take over her grandfather’s potion shop. Unfortunately, it is in worse shape than she realized. It’s the equivalent of inheriting your grandfather’s run-down farm in Harvest Moon.
 She has to rebuild the shop, from tidying the counters to buying new equipment, as she gets to know the locals. She can’t do it without help, of course. It’s going to take some hard bargaining and friend-making to source ingredients and sell potions to customers. If you do it right, you might even get a decent relationship and friendly discounts out of the deal.
Potionomics launches for PC on October 17, 2022. You can play the demo now on Steam.
Sprout Valley Developer: Vadzim Liakhovich Publisher: RedDeer Games Sprout Valley is a solo project by Polish indie developer Vazddim Liakhovich that started on Kickstarter. Think Animal Crossing meets Stardew Valley.
 Our feline protagonist, Nico, grew up in the big city of Lemontop, but always dreamed of owning a farm. Thanks to Ozlo, a penguin trying to sell his family farm, that’s now possible.
Sprout Valley involves a mix of farming sim and Animal Crossing-like activities, from fishing to mining and selling products. It has just about any activity you’d expect from a farming sim, but at an accelerated pace, so you can get the same satisfaction with quicker progress. Just don’t expect it to be any less of a grind! Sprout Valley is currently in development for PC, Linux, and macOS. You can play the demo now on Steam.
Cassette Beasts Developer: Bytten Studio Publisher: Raw Fury Cassette Beasts is the latest monster-taming indie sensation to hit Steam. Welcome to New Wirral, a mysterious island where people from different worlds have been trapped. Just as you’re about to be attacked by a strange monster, a ranger named Kaleigh steps in and throws you a cassette player. It isn’t for sick tunes, though. It transforms you into one of the titular Cassette Beasts.
Cassette Beasts quickly pulls you into an eerie tale about why you and the other visitors are stranded in Harborville and what these unique monsters called “Archangels” have to do with it. As a plus, it differs from the standard monster-taming formula in the sense that your cassette player transforms you into a beast. It also allows you to fuse monsters like in Shin Megami Tensei , rather than evolve them.
Cassette Beasts is currently in development for PC, Linux, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, and Nintendo Switch. You can play the demo now on Steam.
Editors' Recommendations You need to play these 7 creative Steam Next Fest demos this week You have to try these two climbing game demos during Steam Next Fest Tech News Gaming Who doesn't love LEGO? If you're looking for the perfect gift for your kids or yourself, you can save some money during LEGO Black Friday deals. We've pulled some of our favorite options from the most popular LEGO sets, including Marvel, Star Wars, Technics and Speed Champions. There are also some generic sets at the bottom. Most of these are part of the massive Walmart Black Friday LEGO sale, so check that out too. While there are early Black Friday deals, they may not last until the actual shopping event. If you see something, you should grab it today.
Black Friday LEGO Marvel deals The LEGO and Marvel collaboration has brought joy to children for years now. If you want a cheap way to collect figures from your favorite Marvel comics, movies and TV shows, LEGO sets are a great place to start. Below we've pulled some cheap sets that include adult-focused sets like the Infinity Gauntlet and full-size action figures as well as some kid-friendly sets that focus on a mini-fig with some scenery.
Gaming November 19 marks the 25th anniversary of the original Half-Life, and to celebrate, Valve made a special announcement. No, Half-Life 3 was not announced. But Valve celebrated the anniversary with a massive update to the game on PC and a new documentary detailing its development. The best part: It's all available for free.
Half-Life's 25th-anniversary update incorporates the Half-Life: Uplink demo that Valve gave away as a CD via magazine and hardware manufacturer promotions in the 1990s and introduces many multiplayer maps. That includes four brand-new maps -- Contamination, Pool Party, Disposal, and Rocket Frenzy -- and three more maps that were previously only included in the Half-Life: Further Data CD release: Double Cross, Rust Mill, and Xen DM. It's also now possible to play as a Space Biker, Prototype Barney, Skeleton, and Too Much Coffee Man and use dozens of Further Data sprays in Half-Life: Deathmatch.
Gaming The original Hollow Knight was first released in 2017 and was immediately recognized as one of the most impressive entries in the Metroidvania genre, indie or not. The immaculate hand-drawn art style made even the dank, drab world full of bugs known as Hollownest a truly endearing place to explore. Combined with the tight platforming controls, light soulslike elements, satisfying upgrades, and cryptic story, Hollow Knight soared to the top of many critics' and players' favorite games lists.
Team Cherry, the three-person team behind Hollow Knight, didn't stop there. The team continued working on the game for the following year with four pieces of DLC that expanded the game's world and added new enemies, bosses, quests, and game modes. Initially planned as yet another piece of DLC, Hollow Knight: Silksong, originally called Hornet, became so large that Team Cherry decided to make it a full sequel. The development of this new entry has been as mysterious as the world it is set in, with many important questions still shrouded in darkness. As we continue to wait for our next dive into the world of bugs, here's everything we know about Hollow Knight: Silksong.
Release date speculation Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
