Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment News Everything coming to Disney+ in November 2023 By Jason Struss Close It’s soon going to be November, that time of year filled with turkey, pies, parades, and unwanted relatives.
Disney+ will do its best to celebrate the season of giving thanks with its new and returning Disney+ shows , original movies, and season finales that are set to stream in November 2023.
Some of November’s highlights include the season 2 finale of Loki , the season 1 finale of Goosebumps , and the premiere of season 2 of The Santa Clauses.
 Below, we’ve provided the full list of everything new on Disney+ in November 2023.
2023 Feast Week live stream: watch Thanksgiving college basketball for free What’s new on Tubi in December 2023 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November Wednesday, November 1 Firebuds (Season 2, 5 episodes) The Incredible Dr. Pol (Season 23, 10 episodes) Kiff (season 1, 3 episodes) The Villains of Valley View (Season 2, 3 episodes) Behind the Attraction (Season 2 Premiere – All Episodes Streaming) From executive producers Dwayne Johnson, Dany Garcia, and Brian Volk-Weiss, Behind the Attraction takes you on a ride behind Disney Parks’ most iconic and beloved rides and experiences.
The Three Detectives (Premiere) Kim, Marie, and Franzi are BFFs and have what other girls can only dream of: their very own detective club! Be it criminals, beaus, issues with their parents, or a case of blackmail, theft, or cyber mobbing, there isn’t a mystery the clever, but often stubborn Kim, the sporty and confident Franzi, and the stylish, versatile Marie cannot solve. Their differences sometimes put their friendship to the test, but in the end, they crack every case and always have each other’s backs.
Thursday, November 2 Loki (Season 2 Episode 5) Marvel Studios’ Loki season 2 picks up in the aftermath of the shocking season finale as Loki finds himself in a battle for the soul of the Time Variance Authority. Along with Mobius, Hunter B-15 and a team of new and returning characters, Loki navigates an ever-expanding and increasingly dangerous multiverse in search of Sylvie, Judge Renslayer, Miss Minutes, and the truth of what it means to possess free will and glorious purpose.
Friday, November 3 Spider-Man: Far From Home Marvel Studios Legends (New Episodes) Carol Danvers Captain Marvel landed in the MCU with her own film, and was established as one of the most powerful heroes yet unveiled. Originally a pilot named Carol Danvers, the Captain gained her power aster being exposed to energy from the Tesseract.
Legends retraces Captain Marvel’s journey, as she discovers her truth, repels an alien invasion, and finally stands with the Avengers in their fight against Thanos.
Kamala Khan Kamala Khan might be a teenager struggling with your average coming-of-age issues, but she also has to cope with a set of bizarre powers derived from an ancient artifact inherited from her estranged grandmother.
Legends unpacks Kamala’s surprising journey, as she goes from a young woman who dreams about hanging with the Avengers to a fledgling superhero who might actually get the chance one day.
Monica Rambeau As a child, she called Captain Marvel “Auntie Carol” and helped the burgeoning hero pick out her uniform’s trademark colors. As an adult, Monica Rambeau became an agent of S.W.O.R.D. — and for a time, she was trapped inside a powerful HEX conjured by Wanda Maximoff. But Rambeau’s traumatic brush with Maximoff’s magic altered the agent on a cellular level and imbued her with powers of her own.
Goosebumps Episode 8 Goosebumps , the chilling new series inspired by R.L. Stine’s worldwide bestselling books, follows a group of five high schoolers as they embark on a shadowy and twisted journey to investigate the tragic passing three decades earlier of a teen named Harold Biddle – while also unearthing dark secrets from their parents’ past.
Monday, November 6 JFK: One Day in America (Season 1, 3 episodes) Tuesday, November 7 Dancing with the Stars (Season 32, new episode live; same time as the broadcast on your local ABC station, based on your location) Wednesday, November 8 Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures (Season 1, 6 episodes) Daddies on Request (Season 2 Premiere – All Episodes Streaming) It has been a year since California reunited with her mother following the arrests of Riquezes and Gamboa and the escape of Patricio Sandoval. Itzel returned to CDMX, gave testimony, and then embarked on a trip with her daughter throughout Mexico in the ice cream van to get to know each other again. As the crooks’ trial approaches, Itzel and California return to CDMX to see Morgan, Diego, and Miguel, who have also changed. They all have their day jobs, but at night they come together to keep the band’s dream alive.
The Santa Clauses (Season 2 Two-Episode Premiere) The beloved franchise returns! After 28 years, Scott Calvin reigns as Santa Claus, leader of the North Pole and Christmas. With his family — Carol, Sandra, and Cal — by his side, and his elves at the reins, Scott contends with a changing world to keep the spirit of Christmas alive for a new generation.
Thursday, November 9 Loki (Season 2 finale) Friday, November 10 Goosebumps Episode 9 Tuesday, November 14 Dancing with the Stars (Season 32 new episode live; same time as the broadcast on your local ABC station, based on your location) Wednesday, November 15 The Ghost and Molly McGee (Season 2, 4 episodes) Hamster & Gretel (Season 1, 4 episodes) Me & Mickey (Shorts) (Season 2, 22 episodes) Mickey Mouse Funhouse (Season 2, 8 episodes) To Catch a Smuggler (Season 6, 8 episodes) The Santa Clauses (Season 2, Episode 3) Friday, November 17 Dashing Through the Snow Premiere Eddie Garrick is a good-hearted man who has lost his belief in the wonder of Christmas. While spending time with his 9-year-old daughter, Charlotte, on Christmas Eve, he befriends a mysterious man in a red suit named Nick.
Goosebumps Season 1 finale Monday, November 20 Incredible Animal Journeys (S1, 6 episodes) Tuesday, November 21 Dancing with the Stars (Season 32, new episode live; same time as the broadcast on your local ABC station, based on your location) Wednesday, November 22 Hailey’s on It! (S1, 3 episodes) Meet Spidey and his Amazing Friends (S3, 6 episodes) Marvel’s Spidey and His Amazing Friends (S2, 5 episodes) The Santa Clauses (Season 2, Episode 4) Thursday, November 23 The Naughty Nine (Disney Original Movie) In The Naughty Nine , mischievous fifth grader Andy finds himself without a present from Santa on Christmas morning. Realizing he must have landed on the “naughty list” and feeling unfairly maligned, Andy pulls together a team of eight other “naughty listers” to help him execute an elaborate heist in Santa’s Village at the North Pole to get the presents they feel they deserve.
Tuesday, November 28 Dancing with the Stars (Season 32, new episode live; same time as the broadcast on your local ABC station, based on your location) Wednesday, November 29 Life Below Zero (S21, 11 episodes) Lost Cities Revealed with Albert Lin (S1, 6 episodes) Mickey’s Christmas Tales (Shorts) (S1, 5 episodes) Assembled: The Making of Loki Season 2 (Premiere) Through candid interviews with the creative minds behind the show, and exclusive on-set footage, discover how the talented team that powered Loki season 2 raised the stakes for this latest MCU adventure.
The Santa Clauses (Season 2, Episode 5) Editors' Recommendations Everything coming to Peacock in December 2023 The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) Don’t let these 3 November hidden streaming movie gems fly under your radar Everything coming to Hulu in December 2023 Everything coming to Disney+ in December 2023 Tech News Entertainment The prices of many streaming services are getting out of hand. Every major streaming service, from Netflix to Disney+, has seemingly increased monthly rates over the last year. If you want to access thousands of movies and TV shows for free, then sign up for Tubi, an ad-supported streaming service. Tubi is considered a FAST streaming service, meaning it's free to sign up and use. The only catch is that ads will run sparingly during your program.
With over 50,000 movies and TV shows, Tubi can keep you entertained for a long time. To help you find something great to watch, we curated a list of three TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November: a DC origin story, a Lovecraftian drama, and a British crime thriller.
Gotham (2014-2019) Entertainment The end of the year is almost here: can you believe it’s almost 2024? As you wind things down at work, take time off to enjoy with the family, and relax, it’s the perfect time to curl up with a great show. There are plenty of new and returning shows this month that are available through all the top streaming services. Browse this list and you’re bound to find a few worth adding to your nightly viewing selection.
There’s everything from dramas to comedies, a British heist series, a Canadian gem, and the end of a royal era. Have a look at these six shows you need to watch in December and pick the ones you want to dive into before the year is over.
Slow Horses season 3 (December 1) Slow Horses — Season 2 Official Trailer | Apple TV+ Entertainment The Paramount+ selection of sci-fi movies is very thin in the month of November. That's truly unfortunate for fans of the genre who can't live on Star Trek movies alone. And frankly, it would get pretty boring if we had to pick one Star Trek film to recommend every month.
Unfortunately, in order to get to three sci-fi movies to watch on Paramount+ in November, we had to pick one from the higher tier, Paramount+ with Showtime. We prefer to avoid doing that, but if Paramount+ doesn't improve its sci-fi selection next month, then we may have to do it again.
Event Horizon (1997) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
