Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment News Everything coming to Netflix in November 2023 By Jason Struss Close While there’s a multitude of streamers to choose from, Netflix continues to be the primary destination for streaming movies and TV shows. With recent hit shows like The Fall of the House of Usher , Suits , and Beckham , plus blockbuster movies like Fair Play and the popular comedy Old Dads , Netflix still rules the streaming landscape like no other.
November 1 November 2 November 3 November 4 November 7 November 8 November 9 November 10 November 11 November 14 November 15 November 16 November 17 November 20 November 21 November 22 November 23 November 24 November 27 November 28 November 29 November 30 Coming sometime in November Netflix’s dominance will continue in November 2023 with the premiere of a controversial reality show based on its popular Korean drama series Squid Game.
 In addition, there are new original movies like Nyad and the David Fincher thriller The Killer.
 Finally, the last season of The Crown will debut later in the month. Check the list below for everything that is coming to Netflix in November 2023.
November 1 Hurricane Season 2023 Feast Week live stream: watch Thanksgiving college basketball for free What’s new on Tubi in December 2023 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November When a group of kids finds a corpse floating in a canal, the brutal reality behind the perverse crime unravels a town’s hidden secrets.
Locked In A kindly nurse tries to unlock the secrets of a coma patient’s injuries — and discovers the bitter rivalry, infidelity, betrayal and murder behind them.
Mysteries of the Faith This is a sweeping docuseries exploring the secrets of Christianity’s most legendary artifacts. From the Veil of the Veronica to the Holy Nails, these cherished objects have mystified and inspired millions for centuries, but only a few have seen them up close and personal. Until now.
Nuovo Olimpo In 1970s Rome, a casual encounter between Enea and Pietro at a movie theater turns into an unforgettable romance — until destiny pulls them apart.
Till Murder Do Us Part: Soering vs. Haysom Did Jens Soering murder his girlfriend’s parents in 1985 — or was she the killer? This docuseries digs into questions that still swirl around the case.
Wingwomen Tired of life on the run, a pro thief decides to retire — but not before one easy last job with her partner in crime and a feisty new getaway driver.
13 Going on 30 13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi 60 Days In: Season 5 The Addams Family The Big Lebowski The Change-Up Desperado Downsizing Drag Me to Hell Love in the Wild: Season 1 Madea’s Family Reunion The Mummy (2017) Paul Blart: Mall Cop Paul Blart: Mall Cop 2 Pitch Perfect The Scorpion King Scott Pilgrim vs. the World Sherlock Gnomes Six Feet Under: Seasons 1-5 Sixteen Candles The Social Network Ted 2 Victorious: Season 3 Whiplash November 2 All the Light We Cannot See In the final days of WWII, the paths of a blind French girl and a German soldier collide in a story of the extraordinary power of human connection. It’s directed by Shawn Levy and based on the Pulitzer Prize-winning novel by Anthony Doerr.
Cigarette Girl A gifted artisan’s journey of love and self-discovery unfolds as she defies tradition within Indonesia’s clove cigarette industry in the 1960s.
Higuita: The Way of the Scorpion From poverty to soccer legend, this documentary captures the rise of Colombia’s René Higuita, his revolutionary career, and the birth of “The Scorpion.” Onimusha With a demonic weapon in hand, a wandering swordsman-for-hire and a samurai brotherhood take on an uprising of the undead.
Unicorn Academy When a dark force threatens to destroy Unicorn Island, a brave teen and her five schoolmates must rise up to protect their beloved magical academy.
November 3 Blue Eye Samurai A mixed-race master of the sword who lives a life in disguise seeks revenge in Edo-period Japan.
Daily Dose of Sunshine A kind-hearted nurse working in psychiatry goes above and beyond to be a ray of light for those under her care, despite the challenges coming her way.
Erin & Aaron: Season 1 Ferry: The Series Desperate for funds, Ferry Bouman stumbles upon a golden opportunity when a high-profile bust leaves a vacant position among Brabant’s top dealers.
Nyad Nyad tells the remarkable true story of athlete Diana Nyad, who, at the age of 60, commits to achieving her lifelong dream: a 110-mile open ocean swim from Cuba to Florida.
Selling Sunset: Season 7 Set in the world of LA’s high-end real estate, Selling Sunset follows the city’s most successful female realtors who all work under the same roof at The Oppenheim Group, the No. 1 agency in the Hollywood Hills and the Sunset Strip.
Sly His love of film began as an escape from a rocky childhood. From underdog to Hollywood legend, Sylvester Stallone tells his story in this documentary.
The Tailor: Season 3 Vacaciones de verano When two friends lose their jobs and find gigs as children’s entertainers at a luxury hotel, they sneak in their kids to give them a summer vacation.
November 4 The Amazing Race: Season 17 The Amazing Race: Season 31 Insidious: The Red Door Lopez vs. Lopez: Season 1 November 7 Face Off: Seasons 4-5 The Improv: 60 and Still Standing The Improv turns 60 with original performances from today’s most celebrated artists and biggest concert acts, along with exclusive and rarely seen moments from one of the largest comedy archives. It’s a one-night event to honor artists who defined comedy and culture for decades … all while standing in front of a simple brick wall.
November 8 The Billionaire, the Butler and the Boyfriend How did a conflict between the world’s wealthiest woman and her daughter spiral into national scandal? This riveting docuseries tells the whole story.
The Claus Family 3 When the delivery of presents goes wrong and Grandpa Noël gets in trouble, siblings Jules and Noor must work together to save Christmas. Can they do it? Cyberbunker: The Criminal Underworld This documentary reveals how a group of hackers powered the darkest corners of the internet from a Cold War-era bunker in a quiet German tourist town.
Escaping Twin Flames Robbie Williams After 25 years and a record-breaking solo career, Robbie looks back on his younger self and reflects on a lifetime spent in the spotlight.
November 9 Akuma Kun Akuma Kun, a boy raised by a demon, works with his half-human partner, Mephisto III, as paranormal investigators to solve various murder and mysteries.
Temple of Film: 100 Years of the Egyptian Theatre Guillermo del Toro, Rian Johnson and other film luminaries look back at LA’s historic Egyptian Theatre as it returns to its former movie palace glory.
November 10 At the Moment This anthology series set during the pandemic follows 10 unique love stories of passion and heartache.
The Killer After a fateful near miss, an assassin battles his employers — and himself — on an international hunt for retribution he insists isn’t personal.
Team Ninja Warrior: Season 2 November 11 Laguna Beach: Season 3 November 14 Criminal Code To crack the code of an investigation into a larger-than-life robbery, federal agents need to get creative.
How to Become a Mob Boss Narrator Peter Dinklage guides you through this darkly satirical how-to guide that explores the rise and fall of history’s most notorious mob bosses — from Al Capone to Pablo Escobar — and their tactics for success.
The Netflix Cup: Swing to Survive This fall, in a clash of wheels and irons, stars of two Netflix sports series will face off in The Netflix Cup, Netflix’s first-ever live sports event featuring athletes from Formula 1: Drive to Survive and Full Swing.
While chaos rules over Rome, established alliances are at risk as tensions rise with emerging clans.
November 15 Feedback A former rock star with a faulty memory and a family in shambles, all due to his addiction problem, sets off on a frantic search to find his missing son.
First Wives Club: Seasons 1-3 Matt Rife: Natural Selection A new stand-up special from comedian Matt Rife.
Million Dollar Decorators: Season 1 November 16 Best. Christmas. Ever! After a twist of fate brings their families together for Christmas, Charlotte sets out to prove her old friend Jackie’s life is too good to be true.
The Crown: Season 6 Part 1 Queen Elizabeth II reflects on her legacy and lineage as Diana dazzles the public in the final weeks of her life and the monarchy faces a reckoning.
Downton Abbey Harriet In Love and Deep Water Romance, mystery, and mayhem unfolds aboard a luxury liner heading for the Aegean Sea when a butler and a passenger try to solve a baffling murder.
Lone Survivor November 17 All-Time High A con artist in dire need of cash and a woman with a crypto fortune hit it off. Is she the target of his dreams, or is the scammer about to get scammed? Believer 2 A determined detective continues his search for the truth behind Asia’s largest drug organization and its elusive boss, who he has unfinished business with.
CoComelon Lane Join your favorite “CoComelon” characters on imaginative adventures as they explore feelings — and the world around them — in this story-driven series.
The Dads In this gentle meditation on fatherhood, brotherhood ,and manhood, five fathers of trans children join Dennis Shepard – the father of slain gay college student Matthew Shepard – for a weekend fishing trip in rural Oklahoma. As the men cast their lines into the river, they find common ground across racial, geographical and generational lines: their unconditional love for their children.
The Queenstown Kings After his father’s death, a washed-up soccer star returns to rural Queenstown and struggles to connect with his son, a promising player with big dreams.
Rustin Activist Bayard Rustin faces racism and homophobia as he helps change the course of Civil Rights history by orchestrating the 1963 March on Washington.
Sagrada Familia: Season 2 Haunted by the past, Gloria will stop at nothing to carve out a future for her family while new schemes and mysteries bubble up in the neighborhood.
Scott Pilgrim Takes Off Scott Pilgrim meets the girl of his dreams, Ramona Flowers, but learns he must defeat her seven evil exes in order to date her. Then things get even more complicated.
Stamped from the Beginning Using innovative animation and expert insights, this documentary based on Ibram X. Kendi’s bestseller explores the history of racist ideas in America.
November 20 Shahs of Sunset: Seasons 1-2 November 21 Leo Adam Sandler is a lizard named Leo in this coming-of-age musical comedy about the last year of elementary school as seen through the eyes of a class pet.
November 22 Crime Diaries: The Celebrity Stylist When an up-and-coming stylist is found stabbed to death in his home, a young detective is given 20 days to solve the case. Inspired by true events.
High on the Hog: How African American Cuisine Transformed America: Season 2 Squid Game: The Challenge ( New episodes released weekly, through December 6) Like in the drama show that inspired it, 456 real players will enter the competition show in pursuit of a life-changing reward of $4.56 million. As they compete through a series of games inspired by the original show — plus surprising new additions — their strategies, alliances, and character will be put to the test while competitors are eliminated around them.
November 23 Love Island USA: Season 3 My Daemon To save his mother, a kind-hearted boy and his tiny daemon friend set out on a journey across postapocalyptic Japan as dark forces close in.
My Little Pony: Make Your Mark: Chapter 6 November 24 A Nearly Normal Family The world of a seemingly perfect family shatters when a shocking murder proves that they’re willing to make desperate moves to protect each other.
DOI BOY A refugee builds a new identity as a sex worker in Thailand and gets caught up in a client’s risky scheme that might lead to a better life.
I Don’t Expect Anyone to Believe Me A writer’s career — and entire life — suddenly goes off script when he falls prey to a dangerous web of criminals right before moving to Barcelona.
Last Call for Istanbul A chance meeting at the airport leads two married people to an unforgettable night full of excitement, desire, and temptation in New York City.
My Demon Wedding Games When Alex and Eva choose to exchange vows at the very spot they first crossed paths, a series of hilarious missteps derails their journey to the altar.
November 27 Go Dog Go: Season 4 Tag and her best friend Scooch love lending a paw to their friends around Pawston, whether it’s delivering cookie boxes or hosting the Dogcathalon! November 28 Comedy Royale Handpicked by Korean comedy icons, five teams of rising comics battle for a chance to host in this Netflix show.
Love Like a K-Drama Four actresses from Japan go to South Korea to audition and act alongside Korean actors for roles in a series of love stories. Will true romance follow? Onmyoji In the gilded enclave of the imperial court, a gifted mystic befriends a brilliant musician, and together they solve cases rising from the demonic realm.
Verified Stand-Up Ten comics. 10 sets. 1 show. Introducing Verified Stand-Up, a new stand-up comedy series Filmed at Webster Hall in New York City. the series features 10 of the best comedians in the game: Asif Ali, Dulcé Sloan, Gianmarco Soresi, Isiah Kelly, Leslie Liao, Nimesh Patel, Robby Hoffman, Rosebud Baker, Sabrina Wu, and Vanessa Gonzalez. Over the course of two episodes, discover your new favorite comedian.
November 29 American Symphony Bad Surgeon: Love Under the Knife This shocking docuseries about one of the biggest frauds in modern medical history exposes a thoracic surgeon famous for groundbreaking achievements in the field of regenerative medicine.
November 30 The Bad Guys: A Very Bad Holiday Mr. Wolf and his crew of animal outlaws realize they’ll need to restore the city’s Christmas spirit to keep their annual holiday heist afloat.
Family Switch Hard Days Already running from a mess of problems, a desperate cop thinks he’s gotten away with a hit-and-run. But there was a witness, and they’ve got his number.
Obliterated An elite special forces team must thwart a deadly threat in Las Vegas in this high-octane action-comedy series from the creators of Cobra Kai.
School Spirits: Season 1 Virgin River: Season 5 Part 2 Mel adjusts to a different pace of life, Jack works to grow his business, and the town faces new threats as secrets begin to surface in Virgin River.
Coming sometime in November Elena Knows As her Parkinson’s disease progresses, a woman leads a relentless investigation into finding those responsible for the sudden death of her daughter.
The Railway Men After a deadly gas leaks from a factory in Bhopal, India, brave railway workers risk their lives to save others in the face of an unspeakable disaster.
Replacing Chef Chico When a head chef falls into a coma, it’s up to his devoted sous-chef to keep their Filipino fine-dining restaurant from closing down.
Editors' Recommendations Everything coming to Peacock in December 2023 The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) Don’t let these 3 November hidden streaming movie gems fly under your radar Everything coming to Hulu in December 2023 Everything coming to Disney+ in December 2023 Netflix Streaming Services Tech News Entertainment The prices of many streaming services are getting out of hand. Every major streaming service, from Netflix to Disney+, has seemingly increased monthly rates over the last year. If you want to access thousands of movies and TV shows for free, then sign up for Tubi, an ad-supported streaming service. Tubi is considered a FAST streaming service, meaning it's free to sign up and use. The only catch is that ads will run sparingly during your program.
With over 50,000 movies and TV shows, Tubi can keep you entertained for a long time. To help you find something great to watch, we curated a list of three TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November: a DC origin story, a Lovecraftian drama, and a British crime thriller.
Gotham (2014-2019) Entertainment Exploring the thousands of titles on Netflix can be both exciting and overwhelming. Content of all types abounds, from dramas and comedies to reality shows and documentaries. There's even a top 10 list to help narrow your decision by letting you see the most popular Netflix shows.
Every week, Netflix releases a list of the 10 most-watched TV shows over a recent seven-day period. Below, we have listed the top 10 shows in the U.S. from November 5 to November 12, along with general information about each show, including genre, rating, cast, and synopsis.
Entertainment The end of the year is almost here: can you believe it’s almost 2024? As you wind things down at work, take time off to enjoy with the family, and relax, it’s the perfect time to curl up with a great show. There are plenty of new and returning shows this month that are available through all the top streaming services. Browse this list and you’re bound to find a few worth adding to your nightly viewing selection.
There’s everything from dramas to comedies, a British heist series, a Canadian gem, and the end of a royal era. Have a look at these six shows you need to watch in December and pick the ones you want to dive into before the year is over.
Slow Horses season 3 (December 1) Slow Horses — Season 2 Official Trailer | Apple TV+ Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
