Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best shows on Amazon Prime right now (November 2023) By Christine Persaud Close When it comes to the best shows on Amazon Prime Video right now, the list is ever-changing. That’s because shows leave the streaming service from one month to the next while new ones emerge. New seasons are always coming out for existing shows as well. That means it’s difficult to keep up.
We have curated this list for you that highlights all the best shows on Prime Video right now. This way, you can bookmark the ones you want to watch, or start watching right away, and make sure you don’t miss them before they’re gone. Of course, Amazon Originals are always available, but how do you know when a new season is out or a brand-new show is available? We’re here to help! Looking for something else? We’ve also rounded up the best shows on Netflix , the best movies on Hulu , the best movies on Amazon Prime Video , and the best movies on Disney+.
Invincible tv-ma 2021 American Horror Story tv-ma 2011 Romancero 2023 Los Billis 2023 Invincible (2021) new tv-ma 2 Seasons Animation, Action, Adventure Steven Yeun, Sandra Oh, J.K. Simmons Robert Kirkman (screenplay), Ryan Ottley, Cory Walker watch on Amazon watch on Amazon With a star-studded cast and Robert Kirkman, creator of The Walking Dead universe, behind it, it’s no surprise that this Amazon original series has received rave reviews. While it’s an animated superhero series, Invincible isn’t a show to watch with the kids. As per Kirkman’s signature style, there’s a lot of violence and gore. At the heart of the story is Mark Grayson (voiced by The Walking Dead ‘s Steven Yeun), the teenage son of the world’s most powerful superhero, Omni-Man (J.K. Simmons). Once Mark turns 18, he begins to develop his own superhero skills and must balance becoming Invincible with being a typical teenage boy, as well as learning the truth about his dad.
Keep an ear out for the members of the Guardians of the Globe superhero team, loosely based on the Justice League, all of whom are voiced by Walking Dead cast members, past and present. Also lending their local talents to the series are A-listers like Zachary Quinto, Gillian Jacobs, Walton Goggins, Seth Rogen, Mark Hamill, Mahershala Ali, and Zazie Beetz.
Read less The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) American Horror Story (2011) new tv-ma 11 Seasons Drama, Horror, Thriller Sarah Paulson, Jessica Lange, Kathy Bates, Connie Britton, Dylan McDermott, Evan Peters Ryan Murphy, Brad Falchuk watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Romancero (2023) new 1 Season Mystery Sasha Cócola, Elena Matić, Ricardo Gómez watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Taking place in a cruel, deserted setting, Romancero follows Cornelia (Elena Matic) and Jordan (Sasha Cocola) who are on the run from the “law, powerful supernatural creatures, and themselves,” constantly pursued through the night. The drama has numerous supernatural elements and creatures, from witches to demons and vampires. Inspiration for the story was reportedly drawn from sources like Gothic literature and various ghost and witch tales.
There are six half-hour episodes in this Spanish drama. The entire story takes place in a single evening, sure to drive the intensity and horror to nail-biting heights. Keep an eye out for Money Heist ’s Alba Flores in a special guest role.
Read less Los Billis (2023) new 1 Season watch on Amazon watch on Amazon A coming-of-age series, Los Billis is set in the ‘80s and follows a group of friends residing in Bogota, the capital city of Columbia and one of the largest cities in the world. As is typical with teenage dramas, the series covers the friends as they navigate coming into their own, searching for their identities and purpose.
At the heart of the Amazon Original show are two teens, David (Julian Zuluaga M) and Leo (Nicolas Santa), who become unlikely friends. The group’s leader, meanwhile, is Leo’s older sister Andrea (Francisca Estevez). What makes Los Billis even more intriguing is that it is inspired by real events and one of the most notorious teenage gangs from Bogota. Streaming in Spanish language, Los Billis will appeal to fans of the teen drama genre.
Read less Gen V (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Jaz Sinclair, Chance Perdomo, Lizze Broadway Michele Fazekas, Tara Butters watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Fans of The Boys will want to put Gen V on their radar. The superhero series spin-off follows a group of students at the Godolkin University School of Crimefighting who are tasked with competing in various battles as part of the deadly, special powers-filled curriculum. The goal? To see who is worthy of becoming a member of the next generation of supes for Vought International.
The series has an entirely new main cast but there will be cameo appearances from a handful of fan-favorite characters from The Boys.
 Expect the same bloody gore and political satire while exploring the idea of how Vought gets its greedy, selfish grips on young supes in training. Each one has their own unique superpowers, and combined with the drive and determination to succeed (and survive), and the naivety about what’s in store, Gen V will get the blood boiling at the absurdity of it all.
Read less Upload (2020) tv-ma 3 Seasons Comedy, Mystery, Sci-Fi Robbie Amell, Andy Allo, Zainab Johnson Greg Daniels watch on Amazon watch on Amazon In 2033, people who are near death can be “uploaded” into virtual reality afterlives of their choosing; but it will cost their families a pretty penny. These VR afterlives are run by six tech firms, setting up a new kind of corporate competition over human death. When Los Angeles party boy Nathan’s (Robbie Amell) self-driving car crashes, his girlfriend uploads him into the luxurious Lakeview digital afterlife. There, he meets Nora, a customer service representative for Lakeview, who onboards Nathan to his version of heaven.
The series follows their friendship as Nathan grows accustomed to life away from his loved ones while Nora balances her connection with the virtual Nathan with her real-life financial and personal struggles. But when Nathan, a talented coder who was on to something big before he died, discovers his death might not have been an accident after all, he must try to unravel what really happened. It all comes down to the economic disparity that continues to exist in Upload ‘s afterlife just as strongly as it does in real life.
Read less Spin City (1996) tv-14 6 Seasons Comedy, Drama Charlie Sheen, Heather Locklear, Richard Kind Gary David Goldberg, Bill Lawrence watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Michael J. Fox was at the head of this ‘90s and early ‘00s sitcom until he had to depart the show due to worsening symptoms from Parkinson’s disease. After that, Charlie Sheen took over in the lead role for the final two seasons. You can now stream all six seasons on Prime Video.
Spin City centers around a fictional New York City local government office, with Mike Flaherty (Fox) as Deputy Mayor and later Charlie Crawford (Sheen) as new Deputy Mayor. The series explored the interpersonal relationships among staff members and the challenges they face running the city. With an eclectic mix of characters and plenty of humorous intertwining storylines and recurring gags, Spin City is easily one of the best yet most underrated sitcoms of the ‘90s.
Read less The Wheel of Time (2021) tv-14 2 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama, Action & Adventure Rosamund Pike, Daniel Henney, Josha Stradowski Rafe Judkins watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Harlan Coben's Shelter (2023) tv-14 1 Season Drama, Mystery, Crime Jaden Michael, Constance Zimmer, Adrian Greensmith Harlan Coben, Charlotte Coben watch on Amazon watch on Amazon In this latest series from the crime writer behind other books-turned-TV-shows like The Five and Safe , Mickey Bolitar (Jaden Michael) is a high schooler who decides to move to New Jersey and start life anew living his aunt following the death of his father. But when a new fellow student disappears, Mickey becomes caught up in secrets, lies, and crime. Together with two new friends, Spoon (Adrian Greensmith) and Ema (Abby Corrigan), the trio discover that there’s a dark underbelly that might be responsible for the disappearances of many others throughout the decades as well.
An Amazon Original, Harlan Coben’s Shelter , based on his bestselling book of the same name, is a young adult suspense/action drama. The series has been receiving rave reviews as a solid, bingeworthy mystery.
Read less L.A. Law (1986) 8 Seasons Drama, War & Politics Corbin Bernsen, Jill Eikenberry, Alan Rachins Steven Bochco, Terry Louise Fisher watch on Amazon watch on Amazon It’s the legal drama that arguably ushered in an entirely new subgenre.
L.A. Law originally aired from 1986 to 1994 and centered around the staff, partners, and associates at a law firm in Los Angeles. Despite being from decades ago, L.A. Law touched on subjects that still remain topical today, from abortion to capital punishment, racism, sexual harassment, homophobia, and domestic violence.
Among its guest cast was a laundry list of unknowns at the time who have gone on to achieve superstardom, including Don Cheadle, Jeffrey Tambor, David Schwimmer, James Avery, Bryan Cranston, and Lucy Liu. Meanwhile, the main cast included actors like Harry Hamlin, Jimmy Smits, and Blair Underwood. The show earned 15 Emmy Awards through its run, four of which were for Outstanding Drama Series.
L.A. Law is worth a rewatch or a first watch for a new generation to see how crime was solved and tried long before the internet and cell phones.
Read less Good Omens (2019) tv-ma 2 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Comedy, Drama Michael Sheen, David Tennant, Sam Taylor Buck Neil Gaiman, Terry Pratchett watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Based on the Terry Pratchett and Neil Gaiman novel of the same name, Good Omens sees the main characters, a demon named Crowley (David Tennant) and an angel named Aziraphale (Michael Sheen), trying to prevent Armageddon. The show follows various Christian themes as angels and the devil fight for control of humanity and the future.
Initially developed only as a limited series, the star-studded cast (along with a voice cast that includes Frances McDormand, Brian Cox, and Benedict Cumberbatch) and compelling story have seen it extended beyond that.
Read less The Summer I Turned Pretty (2022) tv-14 2 Seasons Drama Lola Tung, Christopher Briney, Gavin Casalegno Gabrielle G. Stanton, Jenny Han watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Giving off total To All The Boys and Never Have I Ever vibes, The Summer I Turned Pretty is a similar coming-of-age story about a 16-year-old young woman named Isabel who visit Cousins Beach with her family every summer. But she has a feeling that this summer will be different, and she’s right when a love triangle ensues between the brothers of her mom’s childhood best friend, with whom they vacation. It’s about love, heartbreak, and a young woman coming into her own during one pivotal summer that will change everything.
Based on the book of the same name by popular YA novelist Jenny Han, the show, which returned for a second season, generated plenty of buzz before it even debuted.
Read less The Horror of Dolores Roach (2023) 1 Season Drama, Comedy Justina Machado, Alejandro Hernandez, Kita Updike Aaron Mark watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Take a story based on a hit podcast and chances are, you’ll have a winning TV series.
The Horror of Dolores Roach , which is based on the Spotify podcast of the same name, fits the bill. Described as a contemporary Sweeney Todd-inspired urban legend, it combines elements of love, betrayal, weed, and even cannibalism.
One Day At a Time ’s Justina Machado stars as the title character, who returns to her now gentrified New York City hometown after spending 16 years in prison. But when her survival is threatened, the woman known as “Magic Hands” must do what she needs to do in order to make it through.
The Horror of Dolores Roach is a dark, horrifying tale that combines both scary moments with humor. Keep an eye out for other recognizable faces like Alejandro Hernandez ( New Amsterdam ) as Roach’s old friend Luis, and guest stars like comedian Marc Maron and musician Cyndi Lauper.
Read less Jack Ryan (2018) tv-ma 4 Seasons Action, Drama, Thriller John Krasinski, Abbie Cornish, Wendell Pierce watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less I'm a Virgo (2023) tv-14 1 Season Comedy, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Jharrel Jerome, Brett Gray, Kara Young Tze Chun, Boots Riley watch on Amazon watch on Amazon American film director, producer, screenwriter, rapper, and communist activist Raymond “Boots” Riley ( Sorry to Bother You ) is behind this absurdist comedy about a 19-year-old Black man who stands 13 feet tall. Cootie is played by Jharrel Jerome ( Moonlight, When They See Us ), who actually stands about 5 feet, 8 inches The illusion of height is achieved through the use of old-school camera tricks (think Will Ferrell in Elf ), not CGI.
I’m a Virgo follows Cootie as he comes out of hiding for the first time to join a society he knows nothing about, with the support of a new group of welcoming teenage friends. Meanwhile, there’s a vigilante superhero trying to make the city right by using brute force against minor criminals, and Cootie has attracted his attention.
I’m a Virgo is worth a watch even just to see how they pull off the special effects without any use of CGI. But it’s also a unique coming-of-age story like no other that will have you laughing the whole way through.
Read less The Grand Tour (2016) tv-14 5 Seasons Comedy, Talk-Show Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond, James May watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel (2017) tv-ma 5 Seasons Comedy, Drama Rachel Brosnahan, Alex Borstein, Michael Zegen Amy Sherman-Palladino watch on Amazon watch on Amazon If you want to watch a star being born, stop what you’re doing and immerse yourself in Rachel Brosnahan’s work as Miriam “Midge” Maisel on the 1950s-set comedy The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel.
 Midge is a housewife who pursues a career in stand-up comedy after her husband, Joe Maisel (Michael Zegen), unexpectedly leaves her.
After a drunken, impromptu, and mile-a-minute stand-up set that ends with Midge being arrested, hard-nosed venue employee Susie Myerson (Alex Borstein) takes Midge under her wing in hopes of molding a diamond in the rough. The show has won numerous well-deserved awards, solidifying its place among the best period comedy-dramas you can watch right now.
Read less The Devil's Hour (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Mystery Jessica Raine, Peter Capaldi Tom Moran watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Nothing good ever happens at 3 a.m. If you have ever heard this saying, you know that the time between 3 and 4 a.m. is known as the “Devil’s Hour,” and this is precisely when Lucy (Jessica Raine of Call the Midwife ) keeps waking up, night after night, following the same recurring nightmare. The event, in fact, has been a part of her life for as long as she can remember. It doesn’t help that Lucy’s eight-year-old son appears to be lacking emotion and is socially withdrawn.
When Lucy becomes tied to a string of murders in town, she begins to question her own sanity and why so much darkness surrounds her. The British psychological thriller The Devil’s Hour also stars Doctor Who ’s Peter Capaldi as a reclusive, murderous nomad, and Nikesh Patel ( Starstruck ) as a detective named Ravi who is investigating the killings. This show is dark, ominous, and totally creepy.
Read less Freaks and Geeks (1999) tv-14 1 Season Drama, Comedy John Francis Daley, Linda Cardellini, James Franco Paul Feig watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Cancelled way too soon, it’s unbelievable to think back and realize that Freaks and Geeks only lasted a single season. But all 18 episodes are now available to stream. The Judd Apatow-produced teen comedy-drama stars a who’s who of the young comedy landscape who were, back then, relatively unknown actors. This includes Linda Cardellini, James Franco, Seth Rogen, and Jason Segel. Designed to depict the monotony of teenage life, the ‘80s-set series, which originally aired from 1999-2000, follows Lindsay (Cardellini) and her brother Sam (John Francis Daley) who each have their own unique cliques in school: Lindsay’s are known as the “freaks” and Sam’s are the “geeks.” Having developed a cult following long after its cancellation, Freaks and Geeks has been named by sources like Time, Entertainment Weekly, TV Guide, and Rolling Stone magazine as one of the best TV shows of all time, despite its short run.
Read less Jury Duty (2023) 1 Season Comedy Ronald Gladden, James Marsden, Alan Barinholtz Gene Stupnitsky, Lee Eisenberg watch on Amazon watch on Amazon A sleeper hit for Amazon one of 2023’s best comedies, Jury Duty is available through the streaming service’s Freevee channel, an ad-supported video-on-demand (VOD) option formerly known as IMDb TV. It’s worth sitting through the short ads, however, to enjoy the unique docu-comedy about those who end up called in for the most dreaded task: jury duty. But there’s a twist: the case isn’t actually real, and all but one person knows it.
Ronald Gladden stars as himself, a juror who happens to be the only one who doesn’t realize the trial is not actually real. James Marsden also stars as a parody of himself, an alternate juror, while the other jurors are up-and-coming actors with backgrounds in improv. Hailing from the producers of The Office , Jury Duty is not your typical workplace comedy. It’s a fun, semi-improvised series that critics have been mixed on, but fans seem to truly enjoy, giving it an almost perfect score on review aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes.
Read less Dead Ringers (2023) 1 Season Drama, Mystery Rachel Weisz, Emily Meade, Jennean Farmer Alice Birch watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Rachel Weisz takes on a dual role in this gender-reversed interpretation of the 1988 David Cronenberg psychological thriller of the same name. Playing the roles initially portrayed by Jeremy Irons, she’s a set of codependent twins named Elliot and Beverly who both work as gynecologists. They’re also unafraid to bend the rules in the name of delivering proper women’s health care.
The show is reportedly not for the faint of heart, with graphic depictions of childbirth and various medical procedures. But Dead Ringers combines hearty laughs with plenty of foul language, drugs, and debauchery. Elliot and Beverly are very different from one another, but both have the same goal: change the system, at any cost, in a way they think it should be done.
Read less Billions (2016) tv-ma 6 Seasons Drama Paul Giamatti, Damian Lewis, Maggie Siff, Malin Akerman, Toby Leonard Moore, David Costabile, Condola Rashad Brian Koppelman, David Levien, Andrew Ross Sorkin watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Check out the first four of the current six seasons of this riveting Showtime drama that follows Bobby Axelrod (Damian Lewis), a ruthless hedge fund manager in New York who continues to grow his wealthy portfolio, and increase the power that comes with it.
He doesn’t accomplish this on the up-and-up, though, and his sometimes illegal dealings have caught the attention of prosecutor Chuck Rhoades (Paul Giamatti), who is intent on taking Axelrod down. With a mix of fiction and storylines that mirror real-life financial crimes, the series has been lauded for its fresh narrative each season and new character introductions that represent a who’s who of the A-list Hollywood scene.
Read less The Power (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Toni Collette, Halle Bush, Ria Zmitrowicz Naomi Alderman watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Based on the Naomi Alderman novel of the same name, this British sci-fi drama takes place in a future world where teenage girls develop a strange power: they can electrocute others using nothing but their fingertips and sheer will. The mysterious power arrives without warning and becomes hereditary and unremovable. These young women feel the thrill of having a deadly power that can fend off attackers and effectively get them whatever they want. But when they discover that they can awaken the same power in older women, the world and its power dynamics change dramatically.
This raises the stakes considerably in The Power , which examines a matriarchal society and how tremendous power might corrupt, liberate, and change the course of the world.
The Power stars Toni Collette, Auli’i Cravalho, and John Leguizamo.
Ted Lasso ’s Toheeb Jimoh also appears as Tunde, an aspiring journalist who becomes fascinated with covering the story.
Read less Flack (2019) tv-14 2 Seasons Comedy, Drama Anna Paquin, Sophie Okonedo, Genevieve Angelson, Lydia Wilson, Rebecca Benson, Arinze Kene Oliver Lansley watch on Amazon watch on Amazon In her first big television role since True Blood , Anna Paquin trades vampire blood for high heels as Robyn, a public relations executive from America navigating the industry in Britain. Despite her best efforts, however, her high-profile and high-maintenance clients keep getting themselves into ridiculous messes, leaving her (alongside her sassy colleagues) to pick up the pieces.
Ironically, while Robyn always knows just what to do to get her clients out of tough situations, her sharp wit translates to self-sabotage when it comes to her own personal life.
Read less Class of '07 (2023) 1 Season Comedy, Drama Emily Browning, Caitlin Stasey, Megan Smart Kacie Anning watch on Amazon watch on Amazon It’s like a more light-hearted version of Yellowjackets meets The Afterparty.
 When a group of women who attended an all-girls high school a decade prior come together again for a 10-year reunion, they wind up stuck at the school literally, and figuratively stuck in the past. A tidal wave hits causing the apocalypse, and the ladies must band together at the top of an island peak where their high school campus is located to try and survive.
The women, now grown, however, can’t help but revert to their adolescent selves. This forces them to deal with unresolved high school drama. A fun comedy, Class of ’07 will have you reliving your high school days and the friendships you made in an unbelievably absurd way.
Read less Swarm (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Comedy, Drama Dominique Fishback Donald Glover, Janine Nabers watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Donald Glover is behind this horror thriller about a young woman named Dre (Dominique Fishback), who is obsessed with a pop star (that bears an eerie resemblance in look and style to Beyoncé). Dre isn’t just a member of The Swarm, the name coined for the pop star’s followers (once again, similar to Beyoncé’s “BeyHive” group of die-hard fans), she takes her obsession to dark and troubling levels.
Swarm also stars Chloe Bailey ( Grown-ish ), Damson Idris ( Snowfall ), Paris Jackson ( American Horror Stories ), pop singer Billie Eilish, and Rory Culkin ( Under the Banner of Heaven ). Interestingly, Swarm also counts Malia Obama, daughter of President Barack Obama, among its writers.
Read less A Very English Scandal (2018) tv-14 1 Season Drama Hugh Grant, Ben Whishaw, Alex Jennings Russell T Davies, John Preston watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Hugh Grant stars in this three-part British comedy-drama that dramatizes the story of the political scandal that led to the end of Jeremy Thorpe’s career as leader of the Liberal Party and Member of Parliament for North Devon in the late 1970s.
The story, based on the book of the same name by John Preston, focuses on both the scandal, as well as Thorpe’s life and events dating back more than 15 years prior. Having received glowing reviews when the series first premiered back in 2018, it was even named one of The Guardian ‘s 100 best TV shows of the 21st century.
Read less Daisy Jones & the Six (2023) 1 Season Drama Riley Keough, Camila Morrone, Sam Claflin Scott Neustadter, Michael H. Weber watch on Amazon watch on Amazon While Daisy Jones & The Six is a fictional band created by author Taylor Jenkins Reid for her novel of the same name, the story is loosely inspired by Reid’s own experiences growing up watching the band Fleetwood Mac.
 The 10-episode miniseries is presented like a documentary, providing background interviews with the band members. Set in the ‘70s, the look and feel is that of the wild, hippie-centric world of music during that pivotal decade.
Follow Daisy Jones & The Six and their rise from unknown rock band to one of the biggest bands in the world, along with their subsequent downfall when the members shockingly decide to split at the height of their success. The series, which stars Riley Keough and Sam Claflin and hails from Reeese Witherspoon’s production company Hello Sunshine, shares parallels with many other popular rock bands of the ‘70s, ‘80s, and beyond that music lovers will enjoy dissecting.
Read less The Terminal List (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Action & Adventure, Drama Chris Pratt, Taylor Kitsch, Constance Wu David DiGilio watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Based on the Jack Carr novel of the same name, The Terminal List stars Chris Pratt as Reece, a military man who is ambushed while his platoon is on a mission. Following his return home and his struggles with severe PTSD from these events, Reece begins to question what he remembers and what his role might have been in what happened. Through his investigation, Reece realizes that there might be more at play. And there are people working against him, which puts both himself and his family in danger.
The action thriller also stars Taylor Kitsch, Constance Wu, Riley Keough, and Patrick Schwarzenegger. While it was met with mixed reviews, The Terminal List has been renewed for a second season.
Read less The Legend of Vox Machina (2022) tv-ma 2 Seasons Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Ashley Johnson, Laura Bailey, Marisha Ray Matthew Mercer watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power (2022) tv-14 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure, Drama Markella Kavenagh, Joseph Mawle, Morfydd Clark John D. Payne, Patrick McKay watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Mr. Robot (2015) tv-ma 4 Seasons Crime, Drama, Thriller Rami Malek, Christian Slater, Carly Chaikin Sam Esmail watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Comrade Detective (2017) tv-ma 1 Season Action, Comedy, Crime Channing Tatum, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Jenny Slate Brian Gatewood, Alessandro Tanaka watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Downton Abbey (2010) tv-pg 6 Seasons Drama, Romance Hugh Bonneville, Laura Carmichael, Jim Carter Julian Fellowes watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Bosch tv-ma 7 Seasons Crime, Drama Titus Welliver, Annie Wersching, Amy Price-Francis Eric Ellis Overmyer (developed for television by) watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Kids in the Hall (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Comedy Dave Foley, Bruce McCulloch, Kevin McDonald, Mark McKinney, Scott Thompson Dave Foley, Bruce McCulloch, Kevin McDonald, Mark McKinney, Scott Thompson watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Best movies on Amazon Prime Best shows on Netflix Best shows on Hulu Best shows on HBO The Outlaws (2021) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy, Crime, Drama Christopher Walken, Stephen Merchant, Darren Boyd Stephen Merchant, Elgin James watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Mozart in the Jungle (2014) tv-ma 4 Seasons Comedy, Drama, Music Gael García Bernal, Lola Kirke, Malcolm McDowell, Bernadette Peters Alex Timbers, Roman Coppola, Jason Schwartzman watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Fleabag (2916) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy, Drama Phoebe Waller-Bridge, Ben Aldridge, Sian Clifford Phoebe Waller-Bridge watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Outer Range (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Western, Mystery Josh Brolin, Tom Pelphrey, Tamara Podemski Brian Watkins watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Outer Range stars Josh Brolin as a rancher in Wyoming who undercovers supernatural mysteries while investigating the outskirts of his land. Described to sound like Yellowstone meets Stranger Things , the mystery thriller is sure to excite fans of either (or both) shows as well as those who grew up watching Brolin on screen (Remember The Goonies? ), or just came to know him as Thanos from the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) films. With Brolin serving as an executive producer alongside a team that also includes Brad Pitt, fans can expect plenty of drama, intrigue, and chatter around this original show.
Read less The Expanse (2015) tv-14 6 Seasons Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi Thomas Jane, Steven Strait, Shohreh Aghdashloo, Cas Anvar, Dominique Tipper Daniel Abraham, Mark Fergus, Ty Franck watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Man in the High Castle (2105) tv-ma 4 Seasons Drama, Sci-fi, Thriller Alex Davalos, Luke Kleintank, Geoffery Blake, Rupert Evans, Luke Kleintank Frank Spotnitz watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Boys (2019) tv-ma 3 Seasons Action, Crime, Drama Jack Quaid, Elisabeth Shue, Jessie T. Usher, Karl Urban, Antony Starr, Erin Moriarty Eric Kripke watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Reacher (2022) 1 Season Action & Adventure, Mystery Alan Ritchson, Malcolm Goodwin, Willa Fitzgerald Nick Santora watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Editors' Recommendations The 10 most popular shows on Max right now The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November The 10 most popular TV shows on Netflix right now Amazon Amazon Prime Video Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Entertainment Action movies can get you amped up for a big day to come, or even out of a bad mood. They often feature high-speed chases, intense fight scenes, and maybe even a bit of sci-fi. They can be set just about anywhere and usually include great fight choreography and/or visual effects, sometimes even thought-provoking storylines when you dig deeper beneath the surface.
The best action movies on Prime Video include a diverse mix of titles, both old and new. When it comes to three action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November, they all include A-list casts and one even spawned a franchise that is going strong after two decades.
V For Vendetta (2006) V For Vendetta (2005) Official Trailer #1 - Sc-Fi Thriller HD Entertainment ESPN is constantly adding new programming to ESPN+ every month. With live sporting events, debate-style roundtables, and highlight-driven presentations, ESPN and its family of networks are still the best destinations for round-the-clock sports coverage. With multiple networks and a streaming service, ESPN continues to make entertaining, informative, and thought-provoking content about every major sport. From 30 for 30 documentaries like The Luckiest Guy in the World to sports radio programs like The Pat McAfee Show, ESPN+'s programming will keep fans entertained for hours on end.
Whether you love the excitement of live sports or enjoy a good old-fashioned debate, ESPN+ is a sports paradise. Scrolling through ESPN+'s extensive library can be daunting, so we compiled a list of some of the best shows to watch on the ESPN+ streaming service.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
