Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Disney+ Best Star Wars Movies on Disney+ Best Disney Movies on Disney+ Best Movies on Disney+ Best Kids Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best shows on Disney+ right now (October 2023) By Blair Marnell , Guillermo Kurten and Rick Marshall Close Disney+ may not have as much original content as it used to, but it’s hard to imagine a better lineup of new series than it has in October. Marvel Studios’ Loki has returned for a second season, and there’s a brand-new Goosebumps series for the young horror fans in your family. Additionally, The Simpsons season 34 has made its streaming premiere, while National Geographic’s Animals Up Close with Bertie Gregory is one of the most charming documentary shows this year.
There’s not going to be a lot new on Disney+ every month, especially when the strike delays finally arrive. But there should still be a few more original series that are set to premiere in 2023. If you want to stay on top of what’s next for the streamer, keep checking back for an updated list of the best shows on Disney+ right now.
Assuming you’re not already subscribed, the Disney Bundle is worth considering. With it, you get Disney+, ESPN, and the ad-supported Hulu plan, making it an impressive value for the price. You’ll enjoy new Disney content, live sports coverage, and Hulu’s various originals.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Looking for some more guidance on how to make the most of your streaming service subscriptions? We have also compiled guides on the best movies on Disney+ , the best shows on Netflix , the best shows on Amazon Prime , and the best shows on Hulu.
Loki tv-14 2021 Goosebumps tv-14 2023 The Simpsons tv-14 1989 Animals Up Close with Bertie Gregory 2023 Loki (2021) new tv-14 2 Seasons Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Tom Hiddleston, Owen Wilson, Sophia Di Martino Michael Waldron watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Disney+ is getting Doctor Who later this year, but Tom Hiddleston’s Loki is practically filling the role already in Loki season 2. The Asgardian God of Mischief isn’t quite the villain he used to be, but he’s not exactly a hero either. The new season finds Loki in the odd position of having to save the TVA (Time Variance Authority) from a cataclysmic event that could destroy all timelines.
Standing in the way of Loki is his female counterpart, Sylvie (Sophia Di Martino), who also happens to be the first woman that Loki has ever truly loved. And in a nod to the larger MCU, Jonathan Banks is back as an early incarnation with Kang who may not be what Loki or his ally, Mobius (Owen Wilson), expected to find.
Read less Goosebumps (2023) new tv-14 1 Season Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Comedy Zack Morris, Isa Briones, Miles McKenna Nicholas Stoller, Rob Letterman watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Three decades ago, the original Goosebumps TV series adapted R. L. Stine’s horror stories for children as an anthology. But the new incarnation of Goosebumps is throwing that out the window and embracing serialized stories. Instead of one-off tales of terror, the show revolves around Isaiah (Zack Morris), Margot (Isa Briones), James (Miles McKenna). Isabella (Ana Yi Puig), and Lucas (Will Price) as they try to unravel the death of Harold Biddle (Ben Cockell), a teenager who died in a fire in 1993.
Harold has his own plans, as he possesses an English teacher, Nathan Bratt (Justin Long), who moved into his family’s former home. You can expect to see many of Stine’s signature creations this season, including the Haunted Mask and Slappy the Dummy (Chris Geere), who is just as evil as he ever was.
Read less The Simpsons (1989) new tv-14 34 Seasons Family, Animation, Comedy Dan Castellaneta, Julie Kavner, Nancy Cartwright Matt Groening watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ It may sound incredible, but The Simpsons has a real shot at hitting 40 seasons as the 40th anniversary is just a few years away. Fox has already renewed the long-running animated comedy through season 36, and now The Simpsons season 34 has arrived on Disney+.
The Simpsons was truly at its peak during its first eight seasons, but the misadventures of Homer, Bart, Marge, Lisa, and Maggie Simpson have captured a fanbase that spans multiple generations. At this point, it’s harder to imagine The Simpsons ending because the show has staying power like nothing else before or since.
Read less Animals Up Close with Bertie Gregory (2023) new 1 Season Documentary Bertie Gregory watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Animals Up Close with Bertie Gregory is exactly the kind of show that National Geographic fans should be very pleased with. Throughout the six-episode series, Bertie Gregory and his team take us on a journey across the world to see how pumas, killer whales, elephants, wild dogs, and devil rays live in their native environments.
It’s a very revealing look at places that most people would never have seen in their lifetimes. And if you appreciate nature and animals, this is the show for you.
Read less Ahsoka (2023) tv-14 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Rosario Dawson, Natasha Liu Bordizzo, Mary Elizabeth Winstead Dave Filoni watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ The story for Ahsoka was first teased in 2018 with the final episode of Star Wars Rebels.
 Now, Ahsoka Tano (Rosario Dawson) is teaming up with her former apprentice, Sabine Wren (Natasha Liu Bordizzo), against a pair of Dark Jedi, Baylan Skoll (Ray Stevenson) and Shin Hati (Ivanna Sakhno), who want to help the remains of the Empire bring back Grand Admiral Thrawn (Lars Mikkelsen) to restart the war with the New Republic.
But Ahsoka and Sabine have to overcome their issues with each other before they have a chance to prevent a catastrophe. And if they can’t stop Thrawn from revitalizing the Empire, then their efforts will have been in vain.
Read less Secret Invasion (2023) tv-14 1 Season Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Samuel L. Jackson, Ben Mendelsohn, Kingsley Ben-Adir Kyle Bradstreet watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Secret Invasion finally brings Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) back to Earth, but his employers in the American government, including the newly political James “Rhodey” Rhodes (Don Cheadle), want him gone. More alarmingly, the Skrulls living on Earth have largely decided to follow Gravik (Kingsley Ben-Adir) and his plan to render humanity extinct and make our world their own.
Even Fury’s Skrull ally, Talos (Ben Mendelsohn), has his own problems, since his daughter, G’iah (Emilia Clarke), is firmly in Gravik’s corner. And once Fury learns what Talos has done in his absence, their friendship may not recover.
Read less I Am Groot (2022) tv-g 2 Seasons Animation, Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Vin Diesel Kirsten Lepore watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ The second season of I Am Groot has arrived with more mischief from the title character. This series of animated shorts takes place around the time frame of Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 , as Baby Groot (Vin Diesel) just can’t help finding new ways to get himself in trouble while exploring the galaxy around him.
For the most part, the rest of the Guardians don’t play a role in this series. But you can expect a cameo from Rocket (Bradley Cooper) and at least one other established Marvel character who hints that Groot may have a larger destiny than anyone may have suspected.
Read less The Wonder Years (2021) tv-pg 2 Seasons Comedy, Drama Saladin K. Patterson watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ The word has come down that ABC has canceled The Wonder Years after two seasons, but the show’s entire run is currently on Disney+. This series was a reimagining of the original show The Wonder Years that aired in the 1980s and early ’90s. The new show focused on Dean Williams (Elisha “EJ” Williams), a 12-year-old Black child growing up in Alabama during the late 1960s.
Dulé Hill co-starred in the series as Dean’s father, Bill Williams, with Saycon Sengbloh as Dean’s mother, Lillian Williams, and Laura Kariuki as Dean’s sister, Kim Williams. Don Cheadle lent his voice to the show as an older Dean who looks back on his childhood across the course of the series.
Read less The Adventures of Young Indiana Jones (1999) tv-g 1 Season Action & Adventure Sean Patrick Flanery, Ronny Coutteure, Lloyd Owen George Lucas watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ In preparation for the theatrical release of Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny , Disney is gearing up to add the Indiana Jones collection to its library. On the TV side of things, that includes the ’90s live-action series The Adventures of Young Indiana Jones.
Though certainly not as prolific as Indy’s exploits on the big screen, The Adventures of Young Indiana Jones was a welcome series of small-scale ventures. Starring Sean Patrick Flanery and Corey Carrier as younger versions of the titular character, this version of the series is the 1999 re-edit that compressed it into 22 feature-length episodes.
Read less Star Wars: Clone Wars (2003) tv-pg 3 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Kids James Arnold Taylor, Mat Lucas George Lucas, Henry Gilroy, Genndy Tartakovsky watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Moon Knight (2022) tv-14 1 Season Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Mystery Oscar Isaac, Ethan Hawke, May Calamawy Jeremy Slater watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less The Crossover (2023) tv-pg 1 Season Drama Derek Luke, Jalyn Hall, Amir O'Neil Kwame Alexander watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Obi-Wan Kenobi (2022) tv-14 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Ewan McGregor, Moses Ingram, Vivien Lyra Blair watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ While the Star Wars prequel trilogy has its fair share of blunders, Revenge of the Sith and Ewan McGregor’s performance were solid showings. That made the actor a fan favorite among the fan base, even the best Obi-Wan for many people, and he makes his grand return for the solo series.
Set 10 years after the execution of Order 66 and the fall of the Republic, Obi-Wan Kenobi sees a weary and disillusioned Jedi Master thrust back into action to rescue a young Princess Leia Organa. However, this covert operation also leads to another fateful clash with his former apprentice, now Darth Vader (Hayden Christensen).
Read less Save Our Squad with David Beckham (2022) 1 Season Documentary, Reality David Beckham watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ David Beckham is a legend and superstar in soccer, having played with some of the biggest clubs in the world, including Manchester United, Real Madrid, and AC Milan.
Now, in Save Our Squad with David Beckham , the former player travels to where his sporting career began — the Echo Premier League. He comes on to help Westward Boys, as the team hasn’t won a game all season and is in danger of relegation. It’s a project that comes with a tall order as he tries to reshape this squad to salvage their season.
Read less Marvel's Moon Girl and Devil Dinosaur (2023) tv-y7 1 Season Animation, Kids, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Diamond White, Fred Tatasciore, Alfre Woodard watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Marvel Studios’ daunting cinematic universe is admittedly the main draw of the on-screen brand, but there are some worthy projects that are a bit smaller in scope.
Moon Girl and Devil Dinosaur is among them, with the animated series adapting the Marvel Comics characters of the same name.
Young genius Lunella Lafayette accidentally brings a T-Rex into modern-day New York through a time vortex she created. The two become the titular superheroic duo and defend New York City’s Lower East Side from threatening forces. A charming comic book TV series, Moon Girl and Devil Dinosaur is a wonderfully animated show that’ll surely satisfy family audiences.
Read less Sketchbook (2022) tv-pg 1 Season Documentary watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Dramas, action, and comedy might be what bring fans into the Disney brand, but Disney+ also offers some solid documentary material as well. That includes covering the company’s work, with Sketchbook proving to be a delightful instructional docuseries on bringing to screen several loved Disney characters.
The series also does well to highlight the talent behind the scenes that does so, with each episode bringing in a different artist demonstrating how they bring these characters to life, as well as how they found themselves working at the studio.
Sketchbook should satisfy anyone that’s artistically inclined, as well as those that simply want to see the masters at their craft.
Read less Monsters at Work (2021) tv-g 2 Seasons Family, Comedy, Animation Ben Feldman, Mindy Kaling, Henry Winkler Roberts Gannaway watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Disney Pixar’s Monsters, Inc.
is some of the best-animated work the studio has ever put out, and its world has been expanded more in the last decade. In addition to the 2013 prequel film, Monsters at Work is a Disney+ original series that shows another side of a beloved franchise.
The series takes place after the events of the 2001 movie, the story follows the new protagonist Tylor Tuskmon as a fresh graduate from Monsters University who’s shocked to learn that the company is no longer in need of Scarers. Mike and Sulley return to the cast as well, as they deal with the struggles of running the company and its transition to running on laugh-based power.
Read less The Mandalorian (2019) tv-14 3 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure, Drama Pedro Pascal Jon Favreau watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ The blockbuster series that helped Disney+ take the lead in the “streaming wars,” Lucasfilm’s The Mandalorian returns after a two-year hiatus (although the character made an appearance in The Book of Boba Fett ).
The journeys of the Mandalorian through the Star Wars galaxy continue in season 3, which promises more action, more Darksaber fights, and more Grogu! Once a lone bounty hunter, Din Djarin has reunited with Grogu after last season’s finale. Meanwhile, the New Republic struggles to lead the galaxy away from its dark history. Future episodes promise that the Mandalorian will cross paths with old allies and make new enemies as he and Grogu continue their journey together to strange new worlds like Mandalore.
Read less Baymax! (2022) tv-pg 1 Season Animation, Family Scott Adsit, Ryan Potter watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Big Hero 6 was a breakout success in 2014, bringing a creative spin on the superhero genre with the tried-and-true Disney animation formula. The lovable nurse robot returns in the titular Baymax! — a spinoff animated TV series comprised of short stories.
Taking place within the same continuity as the movie and the other TV spinoff series, Big Hero 6: The Series , Baymax! follows the endearing robot as he goes around San Fransokyo helping the people of the city. It’s a fun and charming new way to expand upon the vibrant world established on-screen by the movie.
Read less The Book of Boba Fett (2021) tv-14 1 Season Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Temuera Morrison, Ming-Na Wen Jon Favreau watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Despite mostly being a background character for much of the franchise’s existence, Boba Fett has always been one of the most beloved Star Wars characters. Temuera Morrison returned in The Mandalorian season 2 to play the iconic bounty hunter, and he was finally given his own solo series in the form of The Book of Boba Fett.
And while the critical reaction to his story was fairly mixed, The Book of Boba Fett brings to light some long-awaited moments, like how he escaped the Sarlacc from Return of the Jedi.
 If nothing else, the series serves as a decent companion piece to The Mandalorian and will tie into the show’s third season.
Read less Marvel's Agent Carter (2015) tv-pg 2 Seasons Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Hayley Atwell, James D'Arcy, Enver Gjokaj Christopher Markus, Stephen McFeely watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Marvel's Luke Cage (2016) tv-ma 2 Seasons Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure, Crime Mike Colter, Alfre Woodard, Simone Missick Cheo Hodari Coker watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Marvel's Jessica Jones (2015) tv-ma 3 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama Krysten Ritter, Rachael Taylor, Eka Darville Melissa Rosenberg watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less The Spectacular Spider-Man (2008) tv-y7 2 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation Josh Keaton Stan Lee, Steve Ditko watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (2013) tv-14 7 Seasons Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Clark Gregg, Ming-Na Wen, Chloe Bennet Joss Whedon, Jed Whedon, Maurissa Tancharoen watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi (2022) tv-pg 1 Season Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Dave Filoni watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Star Wars Rebels (2014) tv-y7 4 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation Freddie Prinze Jr., Taylor Gray, Vanessa Marshall Simon Kinberg, Dave Filoni, Carrie Beck watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Star Wars: Andor (2022) tv-14 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure, War & Politics Diego Luna, Stellan Skarsgård, Kyle Soller Tony Gilroy watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less She-Hulk: Attorney at Law (2022) tv-14 1 Season Comedy, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Tatiana Maslany, Jameela Jamil, Josh Segarra Jessica Gao watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Bluey (2018) tv-y 3 Seasons Animation, Kids Dave McCormack, Melanie Zanetti Joe Brumm watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Prop Culture (2020) tv-pg 1 Season Documentary Dan Lanigan watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less The Orville (2017) tv-14 3 Seasons Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Seth MacFarlane, Adrianne Palicki, Penny Johnson Seth MacFarlane watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Ms. Marvel (2022) tv-pg 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure, Comedy Iman Vellani, Aramis Knight, Saagar Shaikh Bisha K. Ali watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Parallels (2022) tv-14 1 Season Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Timoté Rigault, Thomas Chomel, Omar Mebrouk Quoc Dang Tran watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Marvel's Daredevil (2015) tv-ma 3 Seasons Crime, Drama, Action & Adventure Charlie Cox, Deborah Ann Woll, Elden Henson Drew Goddard, Steven S. DeKnight watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less black-ish (2014) tv-14 8 Seasons Comedy Anthony Anderson, Tracee Ellis Ross, Marcus Scribner Kenya Barris watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Amphibia (2019) tv-y7 3 Seasons Animation, Comedy, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Brenda Song, Justin Felbinger, Bill Farmer Matt Braly watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less The Beatles: Get Back (2021) tv-14 1 Season Documentary John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison Peter Jackson watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Gargoyles (1994) tv-g 3 Seasons Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Keith David, Salli Richardson-Whitfield, Jeff Bennett Frank Paur, Greg Weisman watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Star Wars: Visions (2021) tv-pg 1 Season Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Star Wars: The Clone Wars (2008) tv-pg 7 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy James Arnold Taylor, Corey Burton, Dee Bradley Baker George Lucas watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Raven's Home (2017) tv-g 5 Seasons Family, Comedy Raven-Symoné, Anneliese van der Pol, Issac Ryan Brown Scott Thomas, Jed Elinoff watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less The Bad Batch (2021) tv-pg 1 Season Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Dee Bradley Baker, Michelle Ang Dave Filoni watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Phineas and Ferb (2007) tv-g 4 Seasons Animation, Comedy, Family, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Vincent Martella, Thomas Brodie-Sangster, Ashley Tisdale Dan Povenmire, Jeff 'Swampy' Marsh, Joe Orrantia watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less WandaVision (2021) tv-14 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Mystery, Drama Elizabeth Olsen, Paul Bettany, Kathryn Hahn Jac Schaeffer watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Spider-Man (1994) tv-y7 5 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure Christopher Daniel Barnes, Roscoe Lee Browne, Jennifer Hale Stan Lee, Steve Ditko watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less What If...? (2021) tv-14 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Jeffrey Wright watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Kim Possible (2002) tv-y7 4 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Comedy, Kids Christy Carlson Romano, Will Friedle, Nancy Cartwright Mark McCorkle, Bob Schooley watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Gravity Falls (2012) tv-y7 2 Seasons Animation, Comedy, Mystery, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Kids Kristen Schaal, Linda Cardellini, Jason Ritter Alex Hirsch Read less The Proud Family (2001) tv-y 3 Seasons Animation Kyla Pratt, Tommy Davidson, Tara Strong Bruce W. Smith watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Running Wild with Bear Grylls (2014) tv-pg 6 Seasons Action & Adventure, Reality Bear Grylls Delbert Shoopman watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less X-Men (1992) tv-y7 5 Seasons Kids, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Animation, Action & Adventure Cathal J. Dodd, Cedric Smith, Norm Spencer Sidney Iwanter, Mark Edward Edens, Margaret Loesch, Eric Lewald watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Editors' Recommendations The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now The best comedies on Netflix right now The best movies on Hulu right now (November 2023) Best Products Disney+ Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment When you need to keep the kids occupied for a while, it's helpful to know the best kids movies on Netflix right now.
Netflix has an enormous library of kid-friendly content, including a host of original choose-your-own-adventure stories, but it's natural as a parent to want to know what your kids is watching. So, to help you find something quickly, we keep tabs on the collection every month and surface the best options here.
Entertainment There's nothing better than a long holiday weekend to catch up on your favorite films on Netflix. This weekend has a particularly strong lineup that includes the streaming debut of David Fincher's The Killer, which was briefly in theaters last month. Additionally, the horror title, Insidious: The Red Door, has some post-Halloween scares, while Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse remains one of the best options for movie lovers of all ages.
Want to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Every week on Friday, we go over the newly available films to update our list of the best movies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment First, the good news: the actors' strike is over. The bad news is that a combined six-plus months of strikes in Hollywood means there's bound to be a slowdown in new shows in 2024. But since we're still living in 2023 for the next month-and-a-half, we've still got plenty of fresh scripted content to enjoy. This week, we're throwing the spotlight on Apple TV+'s signature series, For All Mankind, Max's Rap Sh!t, and Netflix's Blue Eye Samurai, an anime show that seems to be on the verge of becoming a crossover hit.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock have spent a lot of money keeping us in fresh new shows week after week. Unfortunately, that's why most of those streaming services are hiking their rates. That's why we suggest going with the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
