Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 By Blair Marnell and Rick Marshall Close This week is a particularly memorable one for Netflix ‘s original series with two big premieres.
The Crown – the British drama that has been one of the most popular shows on Netflix since its premiere in 2016 – is heading towards the finish line with the premiere of its sixth and final season. Additionally, the cult classic film and comic, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World , is getting a new anime series, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off.
With the Thanksgiving holiday coming next week, there’s never been a better time to catch up on what’s new on Netflix.
 You may even need the breather because it’s been a busy year for Netflix. Don’t worry, our weekly update of the best shows on Netflix will always be updated on Fridays to help you plan your weekend binge.
We’ve also rounded up all the best movies on Netflix , the best shows on Hulu , the best shows on Amazon Prime , and the best shows on Disney+ because we take our streaming seriously. Watching while traveling abroad? Use a Netflix VPN to access your country’s catalog from anywhere in the world.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
New this week The Crown Netflix Through five seasons, The Crown has chronicled the long reign of Queen Elizabeth II (Imelda Staunton). But in the newly released sixth and final season, Diana, Princess of Wales (Elizabeth Debicki) looms larger than life and she even overshadows the queen after her death. This season will retell the story of Diana’s final days, the accident that took her life, and what came after.
The late 20th century and early 21st century were turbulent times for Queen Elizabeth and the royal family, as Prince William (Ed McVey) courts Kate Middleton (Meg Bellamy), and his father, Prince Charles (Dominic West), finally marries Camilla Parker Bowles (Olivia Williams). Season 6 is split into two parts, with the remaining episodes arriving in December. For more related content, check out the best performances in The Crown.
Genre: Drama Stars: Imelda Staunton, Jonathan Pryce, Lesley Manville, Dominic West, Olivia Williams, Elizabeth Debicki Seasons: 6 Scott Pilgrim Takes Off Netflix Nearly two decades ago, Bryan Lee O’Malley’s Scott Pilgrim graphic novels had Harry Potter-like success. However, that success did not extend to the Scott Pilgrim vs. the World movie that was directed by Edgar Wright. Now, the franchise is getting a second chance in the new anime series, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off.
This time, the story is being retold in O’Malley’s original art style, with Wright executive producing the show. Almost all of the main cast members reprised their roles for this series, including Michael Cera as Scott, and Mary Elizabeth Winstead as the girl who wins his heart, Ramona Flowers. Unfortunately for Scott, he won’t be able to woo Ramona until he defeats her seven evil exes in battle. And we mean video game style battles to the death, not a game of Parcheesi.
Genre: Anime, Fantasy, Romantic Comedy Stars: Michael Cera, Mary Elizabeth Winstead, Kieran Culkin, Chris Evans, Anna Kendrick, The Marvels star Brie Larson Seasons: 1 Drama All the Light We Cannot See Netflix Netflix’s big prestige miniseries of the fall is here.
All the Light We Cannot See is based on Anthony Doerr’s Pulitzer Prize-winning novel and features Mark Ruffalo and Hugh Laurie in key supporting roles. However, the show is led by newcomer Aria Mia Loberti, who plays a blind young woman named Marie-Laure LeBlanc, the daughter of Daniel LeBlanc (Ruffalo).
As France falls to the Nazis during World War II, Marie-Laure and her father take refuge with her great uncle, Etienne LeBlanc (Laurie). But they can’t hide from the war forever, and Marie-Laure’s fate is tied to a German soldier, Werner Pfennig (Louis Hofmann), who is forced to question his loyalty to the Nazis.
Genre: Drama Stars: Aria Mia Loberti, Louis Hofmann, Hugh Laurie, Mark Ruffalo, Lars Eidinger, Marion Bailey Seasons: 1 Lupin Netflix The French crime series Lupin is back with new episodes on Netflix. Omar Sy headlines the show as Assane Diop, a criminal who models his methods on the gentleman thief Arsène Lupin. While Assane has a lot of style, he doesn’t always take into account how his life of crime will affect his estranged wife, Claire (Ludivine Sagnier), and their son, Raoul (Etan Simon).
In the new episodes, Assane is desperate to reunite with Claire and Raoul. Before he can do that, he will have to deal with a new enemy who is directly targeting his family. And this time, the gentleman thief may be out of options.
Genre: Crime, Drama Stars: Omar Sy, Ludivine Sagnier, Clotilde Hesme, Antoine Gouy Seasons: 2 Super Pumped: The Battle for Uber Showtime Uber and other ridesharing apps have become integral parts of our lives, and it’s hard to imagine not having that option now. But it didn’t happen overnight or by accident. Showtime’s Super Pumped: The Battle for Uber is now on Netflix, and it chronicles the behind-the-scenes drama to get Uber off the ground and then to retain control of the company.
Joseph Gordon-Levitt headlines the series as Travis Kalanick, the first CEO of Uber, who works alongside Chief Business Officer Emil Michael (Babak Tafti) as they bring in Bill Gurley (Kyle Chandler) as a major investor. But neither Michael, nor Gurley are particularly pleased by Kalanick’s tactics, and the company skirts the law to stay in business. Further complications ensue when Arianna Huffington (Uma Thurman) becomes involved with the company. Quentin Tarantino narrates the season, and it is a wild ride.
Genre: Drama Stars: Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Kyle Chandler, Kerry Bishé, Babak Tafti Seasons: 1 New Amsterdam Universal TV NBC’s medical drama New Amsterdam has come to an end, and the show’s fifth and final season has now arrived on Netflix. The series stars Ryan Eggold as Max Goodwin, a doctor who doesn’t like red tape getting in the way of treating patients. So when Max takes over New Amsterdam Medical Center, he puts in place a number of changes that are designed to help both the doctors and the patients.
Season 5 begins with Max trying to come to terms with the end of his relationship with Dr. Helen Sharpe (Freema Agyeman), while also attempting to welcome his new colleague, Dr. Elizabeth Wilder (Sandra Mae Frank), into the fold. This is the season that will determine Max’s destiny in medicine, and what kind of legacy he’s going to leave behind.
Genre: Drama Stars: Ryan Eggold, Janet Montgomery, Freema Agyeman, Jocko Sims, Tyler Labine Seasons: 5 Band of Brothers HBO War is hell, and Band of Brothers never lets the viewers forget the high price that it takes on the men who fought through the darkest days of World War II. This epic miniseries is a dramatization about the real-life exploits of Easy Company, one of the army’s Parachute Infantry Regiments, during the war. Easy Company’s story begins in 1942, and flows through the invasion of Normandy and other European battles before the focus shifts to the Pacific and a potential campaign in Japan.
Billions ’ Damian Lewis has a starring role as Major Richard “Dick” Winters, and you’ll see a lot of familiar faces in this miniseries. But don’t get too attached to anyone. Not everyone in Easy Company will make it through to the other side of the war.
Genre: Drama Stars: Damian Lewis, Kirk Acevedo, Eion Bailey, Michael Cudlitz, Dale Dye, Rick Gomez, Scott Grimes, Frank John Hughes Seasons: 1 Who is Erin Carter? Netflix Who is Erin Carter? You will find out very quickly in Netflix’s new crime thriller, as an unassuming teacher living in Spain, Erin Carter (Evin Ahmad), breaks up a robbery with shocking skill and speed. Unfortunately for Erin, that means people are going to be asking some very uncomfortable questions about how she could do any of that. Erin’s daughter, Harper (Indica Watson), and her husband, Jordi (Sean Teale), want to know about her past as well.
More alarmingly, the surviving robber seems to have recognized Erin from a life she left behind. And now that Erin has exposed her hidden skill set, she can’t hide in plain sight any longer.
Genre: Crime, Thriller, Drama Stars: Evin Ahmad, Sean Teale, Indica Watson, Denise Gough, Douglas Henshall Seasons: 1 Painkiller Netflix You may notice some similarities between Netflix’s Painkiller and Hulu’s Dopesick , but that’s because they are essentially telling the same story.
Painkiller is a dramatization of the rise of OxyContin and the subsequent opioid crisis that still has its grip on this country. Uzo Aduba stars as Edie Flowers, a U.S. Attorney who has been tasked with taking down Richard Sackler (Matthew Broderick), the owner of Purdue and one of the men personally responsible for this mess.
Broderick’s performance is particularly notable because he portrays Sackler as a man without even a trace of humanity. He simply doesn’t care about anyone else. But viewers may find themselves caught up in the stories of addicts like Glen Kryger (Taylor Kitsch), and the real-life testimonials of families who have lost someone to opioids.
Genre: Drama Stars: Uzo Aduba, Matthew Broderick, Sam Anderson, Taylor Kitsch, Carolina Bartczak Seasons: 1 The Lincoln Lawyer Image used with permission by copyright holder The Lincoln Lawyer season 2 began with Mickey Haller ( Manuel Garcia-Rulfo ) taking a brutal beating, and that’s also where part 1 of the season left us. Season 2 part 2 picks up from there as Mickey finds himself in quite a bind. His new client Lisa Trammell (Lana Parrilla) is facing murder charges that may land her in prison for life. And the evidence that she may have done it keeps piling up.
To make matters worse for Mickey, he’s falling hard for Lisa. But a true crime podcaster named Henry Dahl (Matt Angel) seems determined to get between them so he can exploit Lisa’s story for his own gain.
Genre: Drama Stars: Manuel Garcia-Rulfo, Neve Campbell, Becki Newton, Jazz Raycole, Angus Sampson Seasons: 2 The Witcher Netflix Geralt of Rivia (Henry Cavill) and Yennefer of Vengerberg (Anya Chalotra) now know who’s been pulling their strings in the Continent, but that knowledge might not be enough to save them as The Witcher returns with the final three episodes of season 3.
With Geralt waylaid and fighting for his life, Ciri (Freya Allan) is off on an adventure of her own that may prove to be a transformative experience. But all roads lead back to Geralt as the series faces a turning point and a very, very long wait until the fourth season arrives.
Genre: Fantasy, Adventure, Action, Drama Stars: Henry Cavill, Freya Allan, Anya Chalotra, Eamon Farren Seasons: 3 Suits Universal / Universal It says a lot about Suits ’ enduring popularity that the show has been at the top of Netflix’s most-watched charts despite ending four years ago. The series follows the unlikely partnership between prominent attorney Harvey Specter (Gabriel Macht), and a brilliant con man, Mike Ross (Patrick J. Adams). Harvey is so impressed by Mike’s legal knowledge that he hires him on the spot to be his associate despite knowing full well that he never went to law school.
Harvey and Mike’s efforts help the firm win several high-profile cases, even as Mike’s secret threatens to emerge. Meanwhile, Mike catches the eye of Rachel Zane (Meghan Markle), an ambitious paralegal with her own plans to advance in the legal world.
Genre: Drama, Comedy Stars: Gabriel Macht, Patrick J. Adams, Rick Hoffman, Meghan Markle, Gina Torres Seasons: 9 Sweet Magnolias Netflix There’s not much serenity in Serenity, South Carolina in the new season of Sweet Magnolias.
 The three women at the heart of the show, Maddie Townsend (JoAnna Garcia Swisher), Dana Sue Sullivan (Brooke Elliott), and Helen Decatur (Heather Headley), share a special friendship with each other. This season, those bonds are tested as the trio pulls away from each other in anger. But what will it take to bring them back together? Genre: Romance, Drama Stars: JoAnna Garcia Swisher, Brooke Elliott, Heather Headley, Logan Allen Seasons: 3 Black Mirror Image used with permission by copyright holder The dark sci-fi anthology series, Black Mirror , is back on Netflix for another twisted season. Each episode has a self-contained story, and the first installment of the sixth season actually targets Netflix itself! Schitt’s Creek ‘s Annie Murphy stars as Joan, a woman who discovers that the Netflix of her world, Streamberry, is essentially stealing her life in real-time with Salma Hayek portraying Joan’s fictional self in the original series, Joan is Awful.
But that’s only one of the five new episodes waiting for fans. As with the previous seasons, series creator Charlie Brooker has attracted a lot of big-name performers to share the small screen in his stories. And each episode of Black Mirror is a mind-bending experience.
Genre: Sci-fi, Drama Stars: Annie Murphy, Salma Hayek, Aaron Paul, Josh Hartnett, Zazie Beetz Seasons: 6 Manifest Image used with permission by copyright holder Manifest fans, take a bow. This series would have been a casualty of a network TV cancellation if the fans hadn’t streamed the show in huge numbers on Netflix. Thanks to those efforts, the fourth and final season is now complete on Netflix. And this time, the story has a proper conclusion.
The show follows the passengers on Montego Air Flight 828, whose turbulent journey somehow kept them from landing until over half a decade had passed. Soon after, the passengers band together as they realize that their disappearance and return have a purpose. But every single one of the passengers has a death date, and their time is limited as they attempt to find out why they came back and what they are supposed to do.
For related content, please read Manifest Season 4, part 1 ending explained and Manifest Season 4, part 2 ending explained.
Genre: Drama, Supernatural Stars: Melissa Roxburgh, Josh Dallas, Athena Karkanis, J. R. Ramirez Seasons: 4 S.W.A.T.
Sony Pictures TV Earlier this month, CBS canceled S.W.A.T.
after six seasons, only to reverse course and renew the show for a seventh and final season after a massive outcry. Now, the first five seasons of S.W.A.T.
are on Netflix, and the show has already jumped to the #2 slot in TV for the week. It’s almost like the fans are sending the powers that be a message.
Shemar Moore headlines the series as Daniel “Hondo” Harrelson, a leader of a Special Weapons and Tactics unit in the Los Angeles Police Department. Hondo has a good reputation with the citizens of his city, but he and his team still face the difficult task of taking down the bad guys without alienating the innocent people who live there. Hondo’s job is also made more difficult by racism and corruption in his own department. Somehow, Hondo has to hold it all together while making time for himself as well.
Genre: Drama Stars: Shemar Moore, Alex Russell, Lina Esco, Kenny Johnson, Jay Harrington Seasons: 5 XO, Kitty Image used with permission by copyright holder Netflix’s XO, Kitty is a spinoff from the Netflix original film, To All the Boys , and its two sequels. Anna Cathcart reprises her role as Kitty Song Covey, as she steps into a leading role on this series. As the show opens, Kitty is so heartsick about being separated from her boyfriend, Dae (Choi Min-young), that she impulsively changes her life and makes arrangements to go to school in Korea.
However, Kitty finds more than just culture shock when goes through with the move. And making a real relationship with Dae is even more challenging than keeping up their long-distance flirting. This is where the work begins, and Kitty is about to get a real education in love.
Genre: Romance, Drama Stars: Anna Cathcart, Choi Min-young, Anthony Keyvan Seasons: 1 Queen Charlotte: A Bridgerton Story Image used with permission by copyright holder Netflix’s smash-hit Bridgerton presented an alternate timeline in which people of color were among Britain’s high society in the early 19th century.
Queen Charlotte: A Bridgerton Story is the prequel series that reveals how this timeline diverged as young Charlotte (India Amarteifio) rises to power in 1761 as the wife of King George III (Corey Mylchreest).
Golda Rosheuvel also reprises her role as the older Queen Charlotte from Bridgerton in 1817 as she faces a royal crisis. Charlotte’s daughter, Princess Charlotte, has died in childbirth, leaving the royal family without an heir. And that’s something that the queen will do anything to change.
Genre: Romance, Drama Stars: Wataru Ichinose, Shota Sometani, Shioli Kutsuna Seasons: 1 Firefly Lane DIYAH PERA/NETFLIX © 2022 Netflix, Inc.
Although Firefly Lane received an extended season 2 order, this is the end of the road for Kate Mularkey (Sarah Chalke) and Tully Hart (Katherine Heigl). Their friendship is at the heart of the series, and the show explores their connection at different points in their lives, from their teenage years to middle age in the present.
The second half of season 2 finds Kate and Tully’s bond challenged like never before, as they are forced to spend an extended time apart from each other. There are also secrets that could come between them. Their friendship is a powerful thing, but even that power has limits as the series wraps up its run.
Genre: Drama Stars: Katherine Heigl, Sarah Chalke Seasons: 2 The Diplomat Alex Bailey / Netflix Keri Russell has played everything from the all-American girl in Felicity to a deadly Russian spy in The Americans.
 So it seems fitting that Netflix has put Russell in the lead of its new political drama, The Diplomat , which plays like Homeland by way of The West Wing.
 That’s appropriate because series creator Debora Cahn worked on both of those shows.
Russell plays Kate Wyler, a seasoned crisis management expert who finds herself named as the new American ambassador to the U.K. as her marriage to Hal Wyler (Rufus Sewell) is falling apart. Before Kate can even catch her breath, she is thrust into a high-stakes position when Britain is attacked, and Hal’s decisions appear to undermine her duties.
For more on the Netflix show, be sure to read The Diplomat ‘s ending explained.
Genre: Drama Stars: Keri Russell, Rufus Sewell, Rory Kinnear Seasons: 1 Beef Netflix If you’ve ever had a moment of road rage, you know that what follows is not usually your best self. In Netflix’s black comedy, Beef , Danny Cho (Steven Yeun) and Amy Lau Nakai (Ali Wong) have a road rage encounter that transforms their lives, and not for the better.
Despite being strangers to each other before the incident, Danny and Amy’s lives become intricately tangled as their mutual rage for each other intensifies. This is not going to end well for either of them, but it’s almost impossible to look away from the carnage they leave in their wake.
Genre: Drama/Comedy Stars: Steven Yeun, Ali Wong Seasons: 1 Comedy Neon Netflix Everybody has a dream in Neon , but it largely revolves around Santi (Tyler Dean Flores), an aspiring reggaeton artist who just had a music video go viral. That’s why Santi and his friends are attempting to use that momentum to push his career to the next level. Vanessa, aka Ness (Emma Ferreira), acts as his manager, while Felix (Jordan Mendoza) is his social media wizard.
Together, this trio thinks they can shake up the reggaeton music world. But it’s not going to be as easy as they hope. There are a lot of hurdles between them and their goal, and their biggest challenge may be staying united.
Genre: Comedy Stars: Jessie Camacho, Rose Eshay, Daddy Yankee, Michelle Cortés Seasons: 1 Sex Education Netflix Netflix’s breakout comedy hit, Sex Education , is back for its fourth season as Otis (Asa Butterfield), Eric (Ncuti Gatwa), and their friends adjust to their new school, Cavendish Sixth Form College. It’s a big change from their days at Moordale, and Otis is particularly unsettled by the way that Eric goes off to join the popular students. Even Otis’ talents as a sex therapist may not be needed at such an open and accepting school environment.
Meanwhile, Otis’ longtime crush, Maeve (Emma Mackey) is off at school in the U.S. and charting her own academic path. But will Otis and Maeve be able to find their way back to each other before they take the next step in their lives? Genre: Comedy Stars: Asa Butterfield, Gillian Anderson, Ncuti Gatwa, Emma Mackey, Connor Swindells Seasons: 4 Disenchantment Netflix Matt Groening’s animated fantasy comedy Disenchantment is coming to an end with the final 10 episodes of the series. And Princess Bean (Abbi Jacobson) needs to act fast and embrace her powers if she wants to save Dreamland from her evil mother, Queen Dagmar ( Bad Sisters ‘ Sharon Horgan).
Bean’s friends, Elfo (Nat Faxon) and Luci (Eric André), remain by her side as the story heads toward its conclusion. Yet, even their devotion to Bean may not be enough to help her overcome the darkness that is looming over the kingdom.
Genre: Fantasy, Adventure, Comedy Stars: Abbi Jacobson, Eric André, Nat Faxon, John DiMaggio, Tress MacNeille, Matt Berry Seasons: 3 Never Have I Ever Image used with permission by copyright holder After four seasons, Never Have I Ever is wrapping up the story of Devi Vishwakumar (Maitreyi Ramakrishnan) and her high school trials Season 4 picks up with Devi in a weird and awkward space with her sometimes boyfriend, Ben Gross (Jaren Lewison), before she potentially finds new love with Ethan Morales (Michael Cimino).
Devi also has to deal with her efforts to get into the college of her choice and find emotional closure for her time in high school and move past the death of her father. This is where Devi has to choose who she wants to be, and what it will take to make her happy as she finally becomes an adult.
Genre: Comedy, Romance Stars: Maitreyi Ramakrishnan, Poorna Jagannathan, Richa Moorjani, Darren Barnet, Jaren Lewison Seasons: 4 Emily in Paris Stephanie Branchu / Netflix In this shamelessly fun romantic-comedy series, Lily Collins portrays ambitious marketing exec Emily Cooper, who finds herself in Paris after landing her dream job. Along with acclimating to Parisian life, Emily must juggle the demands of her career, friendships, and burgeoning romance in one of the world’s most beautiful cities.
To find out how the last season ended, check out Genre: Comedy Stars: Lily Collins, Lucas Bravo, Ashley Park Seasons: 3 Wednesday Image used with permission by copyright holder Tim Burton turns his attention to Wednesday Addams in this spinoff from the Addams Family franchise, Wednesday , that focuses on the elder Addams sibling. Jenna Ortega portrays the title character, who finds herself sent off to prep school after an incident involving a high school water polo team and two bags of piranhas. While attending the school, she soon becomes wrapped up in a series of local murders, all while trying to come to terms with her own destiny and her parents’ legacy.
Genre: Comedy Stars: Jenna Ortega, Christina Ricci, Catherine Zeta-Jones Seasons: 1 Cobra Kai Image used with permission by copyright holder The hit sequel series to the original Karate Kid films, Cobra Kai brings back William Zabka and Ralph Macchio to reprise their respective roles as Johnny Lawrence and Daniel LaRusso, teenage rivals whose feud has extended into adulthood. Set three decades after the events of the first film, the series has down-on-his-luck Johnny attempt to start a new Cobra Kai dojo, only to have his ambitions reignite his rivalry with Daniel.
Over the course of several seasons, the series has followed the pair as they take on new students, deal with enemies and allies from their past, and eventually face a common threat — all while the teenagers under their care attempt to navigate their own high-school trials and tribulations. Season 5 of Cobra Kai premiered in September 2022.
Genre: Comedy/Drama Stars: Ralph Macchio, William Zabka Seasons: 5 Mystery and Crime The Night Agent Dan Power / Netflix It took The Night Agent less than a day to race to the top of Netflix’s TV series rankings, and it seems likely to make its leads, Gabriel Basso and Luciane Buchanan, into much bigger stars. As adapted for television by The Shield creator Shawn Ryan, this intense action thriller follows FBI Agent Peter Sutherland (Basso) after he stumbles upon clues that reveal a Russian mole is working inside the U.S. government.
Realizing that the fate of the country may be at stake, Peter will stop at nothing to unravel the conspiracy and unmask the mole. He also has an unlikely ally in Rose Larkin (Buchanan), a young CEO who has already been marked for death by their mutual enemies.
For more on this Netflix show, check out The Night Agent ‘s ending explained.
Genre: Mystery Stars: Gabriel Basso, Hong Chau, Luciane Buchanan Seasons: 1 Horror The Fall of the House of Usher Netflix Horror maestro Mike Flanagan has one last miniseries for Netflix before he heads off to Prime Video. Flanagan’s final bow is The Fall of the House of Usher , a modern adaptation of Edgar Allan Poe’s short story and a few other works by Poe. In this incarnation, Roderick Usher (Bruce Greenwood) and his sister, Madeline Usher (Mary McDonnell), own a powerful pharmaceutical company, and they’ve passed on their ruthless streak to the next generation.
That is if there is a next generation. An enigmatic woman named Verna (Carla Gugino) may be behind the gruesome deaths of members of the Usher family. Everything that the Ushers have built is crashing down, and there may be something supernatural behind it.
Genre: Horror, Drama Stars: Carla Gugino, Bruce Greenwood, Mary McDonnell, Carl Lumbly, Samantha Sloyan Seasons: 1 Guillermo del Toro’s Cabinet of Curiosities Image used with permission by copyright holder Oscar-winning filmmaker Guillermo del Toro curated this collection of short films from some of horror’s most visionary, creative directors and writers. The eight stories in the series’ first season hail from a wide range of filmmakers, including Vincenzo Natali ( Cube ), Ana Lily Amirpour ( A Girl Walks Home Alone At Night ), Jennifer Kent ( The Babadook ), and Del Toro himself.
Genre: Fantasy/Horror Stars: Ben Barnes, Andrew Lincoln, Rupert Grint Seasons: 1 The Midnight Club Eike Schroter/Netflix Mike Flanagan, the creator of The Haunting of Hill House , The Haunting of Bly Manor , and Midnight Mass , turns his attention to young-adult scares with The Midnight Club , inspired by Christopher Pike’s 1994 novel of the same name. The 10-episode series follows a group of young, terminally ill residents of a hospice who gather each night to tell each other spooky stories. The members of the “Midnight Club” make a pact that whoever dies first will try to send a message from the afterlife. With Flanagan at the helm of this show, be prepared for big scares.
Genre: Horror/Mystery Stars: Iman Benson, Heather Langenkamp, Igby Rigney Seasons: 1 Sci-Fi and Fantasy Bodies Netflix Finding a dead body is almost always the start of an investigation, especially in Whitechapel, London. But in Bodies , there’s never been a murder investigation quite like this. The show follows detectives in four different time periods – 1890, 1941, 2023 and 2053 – all of whom have found the same dead body! Clearly, something very strange is going on, and there’s a conspiracy in play that runs for the better part of two centuries. The only way the various detectives in each year can unravel this mess is if they find a way to collaborate with each other over the vast span of years between them.
Genre: Sci-fi, Crime, Thriller Stars: Shira Haas, Stephen Graham, Jacob Fortune-Lloyd, Kyle Soller, Amaka Okafor Seasons: 1 One Piece Netflix The One Piece manga and anime have been incredibly popular for decades, and now Netflix is bringing it to live-action in a new original series. Iñaki Godoy headlines the show as Monkey D. Luffy, a pirate who has elastic-like stretching powers and grand ambitions of becoming the pirate king if he can locate the fabled One Piece treasure.
As Monkey assembles his Straw Hat Pirates, Roronoa Zoro (Mackenyu), Nami (Emily Rudd), Usopp (Jacob Romero Gibson), Sanji (Taz Skylar), and others join his quest as they head out for high adventures on the open sea.
Genre: Fantasy, Adventure Stars: Iñaki Godoy, Mackenyu, Emily Rudd, Jacob Romero Gibson, Taz Skylar Seasons: 1 The Sandman Image used with permission by copyright holder Neil Gaiman’s celebrated comic book series comes to life in this adaptation that casts Tom Sturridge as Morpheus, the lord of the world of dreams. When a cruel dabbler in the occult accidentally imprisons Morpheus, it begins a tale that unfolds across multiple generations and through myriad realms and ultimately puts the future of humanity at risk.
In development for more than two decades, The Sandman is a project long thought impossible to adapt faithfully, but the series somehow manages to weave together the enthralling stories and powerful themes of Gaiman’s acclaimed fantasy saga.
Genre: Fantasy Stars: Tom Sturridge, Boyd Holbrook, Jenna Coleman Seasons: 1 Stranger Things Netflix One of the most popular original series on Netflix , Stranger Things has become a cultural touchstone in the short time since its 2016 debut. The series’ opening sequence lays out its sci-fi aspirations clearly: A scientist flees down an empty hallway, pursued by some unseen force that eventually nabs him as he waits for elevator doors to close; it then cuts to a group of kids playing D&D in a suburban basement.
The series is rooted in ‘80s genre nostalgia, from the mysterious creature terrorizing the fictional Indiana town to the secret government agency chasing the group of kids who encounter it. There are pieces of Stephen King, Steven Spielberg, and John Hughes strewn throughout Stranger Things , and the result is a show that will feel immediately familiar to people who grew up with that source material.
For more info on the final season, check out Stranger Things season 5: Plot, date, and casting rumors.
Genre: Sci-Fi Stars: Winona Ryder, David Harbour, Millie Bobby Brown Seasons: 4 True crime and Docuseries Life on Our Planet Netflix Not many documentaries can boast of having Steven Spielberg as a producer and Morgan Freeman as the narrator, but Life on Our Planet is special. Unlike many documentaries, Life on Our Planet isn’t showing viewers the present or the recent history of our species, it’s going all the way back to the beginnings of the Earth, long before humans showed up.
CGI is used for sequences that could never be filmed, including the rise and fall of the dinosaurs, mass extinction events, and the eventual arrival of humans who may yet manage to destroy themselves without any outside help.
Genre: Documentary Stars: Morgan Freeman Seasons: 1 Get Gotti Netflix Over three decades ago, John Gotti was essentially the real Godfather and the public head of the Gambino crime family. Everyone knew who he was and what he had done, but the federal government had extreme difficulty making the charges stick. That’s why Gotti was called the Teflon Don.
Get Gotti is a three-part documentary that chronicles how the FBI was ultimately able to bring him down. It also tells the story of what was happening within the Gambino crime family as Gotti tried to hang on to his power and his freedom. The real Gotti may be gone, but his legend lives on.
Genre: True Crime, Documentary Stars: John Gotti Seasons: 1 Beckham Netflix It’s not an exaggeration to say that David Beckham is one of the most famous sports icons on the planet, even if his fame in America doesn’t match the same intensity it has everywhere else. But given that the new documentary Beckham , has topped the list of the most popular shows on Netflix , it’s safe to say that some of that popularity still extends to the U.S.
Beckham runs for four episodes, and it features David and his wife, Victoria Beckham, sharing stories that range from the beginning of his professional career, through some difficult years in their union, and up until his playing days came to an end.
Genre: Documentary Stars: David Beckham, Victoria Beckham, Fisher Stevens Seasons: 1 Wrestlers Netflix In the world of professional wrestling, very few start out on top. Netflix’s Wrestlers is a seven-episode docuseries that takes a behind-the-scenes look at Ohio Valley Wrestling, a small wrestling promotion that was once a developmental territory for the WWE that trained superstars like John Cena, Brock Lesnar, and Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 ‘s Dave Bautista on their journey toward becoming some of the biggest names in sports entertainment.
Not everyone will achieve that kind of success. In fact, few do. And the physical toll of performing high-impact moves may not always be worth it for the men and women who dream of making it in WWE or AEW. Regardless, we wouldn’t be too shocked if someone from the cast of Wrestlers eventually reaches that goal. After all, no one ever made it in wrestling without reaching for the stars.
Genre: Documentary Stars: Al Snow Seasons: 1 Predators Netflix There are several world-class nature documentaries on Netflix, and the latest addition to that genre, Predators , is all about some of the deadliest hunters in nature. Actor Tom Hardy narrates the series, and naturally, three of the episodes focus on the big cats: cheetahs, lions, and pumas. The remaining two episodes focus on polar bears and wild dogs.
This miniseries offers a rare opportunity to watch these wild creatures facing real challenges to their survival beyond hunting down their next meal. Unfortunately for these magnificent creatures, climate change and natural disasters may prove to be even deadlier than they are.
Genre: Documentary Stars: Tom Hardy Seasons: 1 Quarterback Netflix In the NFL, the quarterbacks are essentially the rock stars of the league. Netflix’s new sports docuseries, Quarterback , puts the spotlight on three players at that position: Kansas City Chiefs quarterback and ESPY award winner Patrick Mahomes, Minnesota Vikings quarterback Kirk Cousins, and Atlanta Falcons quarterback Marcus Mariota.
Mahomes just so happens to be one of the best quarterbacks in the game, and he won his second Super Bowl during the production of this show. But for Cousins and Mariota, they have to fight to maintain their place in the NFL. Both men have been in the NFL for years, and their window to win it all is rapidly dwindling.
Genre: Docuseries Stars: Marcus Mariota. Patrick Mahomes, Kirk Cousins Seasons: 1 Muscles & Mayhem: An Unauthorized Story of American Gladiators Image used with permission by copyright holder “Gladiators, ready!” While attempts to reboot and revive American Gladiators have stalled, Netflix’s new documentary, Muscles & Mayhem: An Unauthorized Story of American Gladiators , offers a glimpse at the game show sensation that ran for seven seasons from 1989 to 1996. The way the game worked was by recruiting two men and two women to compete against each other in over-the-top obstacles and challenges while the titular Gladiators attempted to impede their progress.
It was a massive hit, but as seen in this five-episode series, the Gladiators faced a number of challenges behind the scenes. This show is a fascinating look at some of the American Gladiators stories that have gone untold until now.
Genre: Documentary Stars: N/A Seasons: 1` Catching Killers Image used with permission by copyright holder Netflix never seems to have any shortage of true crime documentaries.
 In the new season of Catching Killers , each episode puts the spotlight on four infamous serial killers as well as the law enforcement officials who moved heaven and Earth to find them. There are only four episodes in this season, but the cases are huge. The Railroad Killer, the Zodiac Killer, the DC sniper, and the Olympic bomber each get the spotlight. And once again, these are unforgettable snapshots of humanity at its worst. But they are also stories of resilience as well.
Genre: Documentary, True Crime Stars: N/A Seasons: 3 Our Planet II Image used with permission by copyright holder After a four-year hiatus, Our Planet is back for another season on Netflix, and it remains one of the most stunningly beautiful nature documentaries on the streamer. David Attenborough returns as the narrator of Our Planet II , which once again explores the impact that climate change has had on the environment and the creatures that live all over the world.
One of the major themes of this season is migration, as animals struggle to find new places to survive and thrive as they deal with both predators and pollution. As in the first season, the visuals are breathtaking and this is a unique look at the world that most people have never seen in person.
Genre: Documentary Stars: David Attenborough Seasons: 2 Animation Blue Eye Samurai Netflix Sometimes, a show can sneak up on you and become a breakout hit when you least expect it. That’s what’s happening right now with Blue Eye Samurai , Netflix’s unconventional anime series.
Logan and Blade Runner 2049 screenwriter Michael Green teamed up with his wife, Amber Noizumi, to create the series set in Japan’s Edo period when the country was closed off from the world.
Mizu (Maya Erskine) is the titular blue-eyed samurai, a distinctive physical trait that she goes to great lengths to hide in her quest for revenge. Mizu’s skills quickly make her a lot of powerful enemies, even though her greatest secret is that she’s a woman, despite passing herself off as a man. She also tends to leave behind a lot of collateral damage in her wake, because she lets nothing get between her and her deadly goal.
Genre: Anime, Drama Stars: Maya Erskine, Masi Oka, Brenda Song, Darren Barnet Seasons: 1 Onimusha Netflix Capcom’s Onimusha video games were always overshadowed by Resident Evil in the U.S., but they might be ripe for a resurgence because of the new Onimusha anime on Netflix. The series is set in Japan’s Edo Periord, as a warrior named Miyamoto Musashi is entrusted with a powerful weapon called the Oni Gauntlet.
Musashi’s mission will take him across the countryside as he comes face-to-face with literal demons that he has to vanquish. And he’ll have to fight his own inner demons as well. If you’re looking or anime action, you’ve come to the right place.
Genre: Anime, Action, Horror Stars: Akio Ōtsuka, Toshihiko Seki, Houchu Ohtsuka, Daiki Yamashita, Subaru Kimura Seasons: 1 Castlevania: Nocturne Netflix The first Castlevania anime was a crossover hit for Netflix that appealed to fans of the video games that inspired it, as well as horror and animation lovers. The new series, Castlevania: Nocturne , picks up a few centuries later and thrusts the story into the middle of the French Revolution. With Dracula out of the picture, the Vampire Queen, Erzsebet Báthory (Franka Potente), is planning an apocalypse that could bring about the end of the world.
It’s going to take some new heroes to defeat Báthory, including Richter Belmont (Edward Bluemel), Maria Renard (Pixie Davies), and a former slave-turned-sorceress named Annette (Thuso Mbedu). Each of the trio has a personal stake in this conflict, but none more than Richter. A vampire killed Richter’s mother, Julia Belmont (Sophie Skelton), and he wants his revenge.
Genre: Fantasy, Horror Stars: Edward Bluemel, Pixie Davies, Thuso Mbedu, Franka Potente Seasons: 1 Cyberpunk: Edgerunners Image used with permission by copyright holder This edgy, high-octane anime series is inspired by the Cyberpunk 2077 video game , but you don’t need to know anything about its source material to appreciate the brutal, bonkers adventure it offers. The series follows a young street kid in the neon- and chrome-filled Night City who falls in with a crew of mercenaries and soon finds himself struggling to hold on to his humanity in a world obsessed with cybernetic augmentation.
Genre: Animation Stars: n/a Seasons: 1 Arcane Image used with permission by copyright holder You don’t need to know anything about the League of Legends game franchise to enjoy this critically-acclaimed adult animated series set in a steampunk world where magic and technology shape the simmering relationship between a utopian metropolis and the oppressed city in its shadow.
Full of gorgeous animation and compelling characters, Arcane follows a pair of sisters whose tragic childhood puts them on opposite sides of the war to come, set against a stirring, powerful score. Once you dive into the first season, it’s difficult not to see it through to the end in one shot — which is probably why Netflix green-lit a second season premiering sometime in 2023.
For more info on the next season, please read everything we know so far about Arcane season 2.
Genre: Animated/Sci-fi Stars: Hailee Steinfeld, Ella Purnell, Harold Lloyd Seasons: 1 Editors' Recommendations The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The best Black movies on Netflix right now The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now The best comedies on Netflix right now Best Products Netflix Streaming Guides Streaming Services Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Entertainment Michael Fassbender in The Killer Netflix / Netflix Halloween is gone, Christmas movies are coming around the corner, but the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max (HBO), and other services haven't fully made the switch to Christmas. There are some high-quality additions each week, though, including some Oscar bait. We're keeping track of all of it in this weekly roundup, so you always have something new to watch.
We also have guides to the best movies on Netflix, the best movies on Hulu, the best movies on Amazon Prime Video, and the best movies on HBO.
Entertainment When you need to keep the kids occupied for a while, it's helpful to know the best kids movies on Netflix right now.
Netflix has an enormous library of kid-friendly content, including a host of original choose-your-own-adventure stories, but it's natural as a parent to want to know what your kids is watching. So, to help you find something quickly, we keep tabs on the collection every month and surface the best options here.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
