Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now By Blair Marnell Close Since the turn of the century, there’s been no shortage of action movies. It is, after all, one of the most popular film genres in the world. It may also be one of the hardest to get right since there was no shortage of bad action movies even before streamers like Netflix and Prime Video started making bad action flicks of their own.
Ballistic: Ecks vs. Sever (2002) Blade: Trinity (2004) The Marine (2006) Terminator Salvation (2009) Van Helsing (2004) So why take the time to watch a bad action movie when you could watch a good one instead? Because sometimes it can be fun to watch bad movies just to laugh at how awful they are. The following list doesn’t contain the greatest action movies ever made, but they are still enjoyable enough to give them a watch.
Ballistic: Ecks vs. Sever (2002) Warner Bros. Pictures It feels like no one at the studio ever asked two important questions about Ballistic: Ecks vs. Sever : “Who are Ecks and Sever? And why will people care if they fight?” While the film does introduce viewers to FBI Agent Jeremiah Ecks (Antonio Banderas) and renegade DIA Agent Sever (Lucy Liu, right before she appeared in one of Quentin Tarantino’s best movies ), it never managed to answer the second question. Even the relatively few people who saw this turkey in theaters couldn’t find much to latch on to.
5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 5 best sci-fi movies from the past 5 years you should watch right now Surely director Wych Kaosayananda didn’t set out to make one of the worst movies of all time (which has a rare 0% score on Rotten Tomatoes ). But that’s exactly why it deserves a re-watch. It’s never so bad that it’s good, but there’s a lot of comedic value to be found in watching this movie with friends.
Ballistic: Ecks vs. Sever is completely unavailable online.
Blade: Trinity (2004) New Line Pictures The first Blade movie gave superhero movies a boost two years before X-Men officially kicked off the modern era of comic book cinema.
Blade II has the distinction of being Guillermo del Toro ‘s warm-up for Hellboy.
 And Blade: Trinity … exists. It’s more famous for the behind-the-scenes blow-ups between Wesley Snipes and second-time director David S. Goyer. That surely did not help Blade: Trinity live up to the two previous films.
This movie is also a transparent ploy to create a Nightstalkers spinoff film starring Ryan Reynolds’ Hannibal King (an actual comic book character) and Jessica Biel’s Abigail Whistler (a character invented for the film). The problem is that they weren’t any more compelling than Blade was, and the Nightstalkers sucked the oxygen out of every scene they were in.
The reason that you should still see this one is that it’s a master class on how to tank a franchise, from a dumbed-down take on a classic villain like Dominic Purcell’s Dracula (whom the film renames “Drake”) to WWE wrestler Triple H attempting to find stardom like Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson with a minor role as one of the supporting villains. But there might be a great movie about the making of Blade: Trinity , if anyone ever dares to tell that story.
Watch Blade: Trinity on Max.
The Marine (2006) 20th Century Studios The idea of wrestler John Cena as an action star didn’t come out of nowhere. WWE tried to make it happen during an era when it first started WWE Studios to create films for its wrestlers to star in.
The Marine was Cena’s first-ever starring role in a movie, and it shows. In the film, Cena plays Sergeant John Triton, a Marine who is honorably discharged after he disregards orders by rescuing hostages in the Middle East.
Back in the States, John and his wife, Kate Triton (Kelly Carlson), are in the wrong place at the wrong time when they run afoul of a group of jewel thieves led by Rome ( Terminator 2 ‘s Robert Patrick). When Rome kidnaps Kate, John spends the rest of the movie pursuing the gang to get her back. This is far from anything resembling a good movie, but it does have some unintentionally hilarious bad writing which makes the experience worthwhile.
Watch The Marine on Tubi.
Terminator Salvation (2009) Warner Bros. Pictures The 21st century has not been kind to the Terminator franchise, which hasn’t had a great movie since Terminator 2 in 1991. But among the truly awful sequels, Terminator Salvation looks pretty good in comparison to the others. What this movie really has going for it is that it actually tries to advance the narrative and show audiences something that they didn’t see in the first three films: John Connor (Christian Bale) in the future as one of the last hopes in humanity’s war against the machines.
Almost everything surrounding John is pretty good, including his private moments listening to tapes from his late mother, Sarah (as voiced by an uncredited Linda Hamilton), to John’s alarm when he learns that the machines are targeting his father, Kyle Reese (Anton Yelchin), as if they know why he’s so crucial to the timeline. Where the movie falls off is by splitting the focus between John and Marcus Wright (Sam Worthington), the first-ever Terminator/human hybrid. Marcus is less compelling than John, but this movie is still light years ahead of the Terminator movies that came after it.
Rent or buy Terminator: Salvation on Google Play , Prime Video , YouTube , and Apple TV+.
Van Helsing (2004) Universal Pictures The 2017 reboot of The Mummy gets all of the blame for tanking the Dark Universe of the famous Universal Monsters, but Van Helsing beat it to the punch 13 years earlier. Stephen Sommers (the director of the 1999 reboot of The Mummy and The Mummy Returns ) tried to bring the comedic tone of his Mummy films to the Dracula mythos in Van Helsing.
 And it didn’t really work well at all.
If there’s a saving grace for Van Helsing , it’s the two leads: Hugh Jackman ( Deadpool 3 ) as Gabriel Van Helsing and Kate Beckinsale as Anna Valerious. This movie is too silly to ever be scary or suspenseful, but Jackman and Beckinsale are at least fun to watch. Even the Brides of Dracula add some unintentional hilarity that helps this one go down. But the sad thing about modern movies is that Van Helsing looks like a masterpiece compared to a lot of the original action flicks made for the streamers. At least this one can be entertaining.
Rent or buy Van Helsing on Google Play , Prime Video , YouTube , and Apple TV+.
Editors' Recommendations 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 5 bad ‘90s action movies that you still need to watch 5 movies like Five Nights at Freddy’s you should watch right now 3 great action movies on Tubi you need to watch in October His House is the scariest movie on Netflix right now. Here’s why you should watch it Sci-Fi Entertainment October is a month when you really need to hype yourself up. Not only do you need to mentally prepare for the upcoming holiday season, you also need to get ready for the colder weather to come. Relaxing at home with one of the best action movies on Prime Video can really get you pumped for the challenging and busy months to come.
Here, we have put together 3 action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in October. You might have already seen a few, but they have great re-watch potential. And if you haven’t watched them yet, what are you waiting for? With these flicks streaming on Amazon Prime Video right now, it’s the perfect time to watch them before they’re gone.
Black Adam (2022) Black Adam – Official Trailer 1 Entertainment Netflix continues to bolster its action content with the passing of each month as new films arrive to entertain the streamer's at-home audience. From historical epics like Gladiator and Saving Private Ryan to action thrillers like The Fast and the Furious and Luther: The Fallen Sun, Netflix offers a variety of films to satisfy all action lovers.
We handpicked three action films that should be saved to your Netflix queue and watched in October. These action films include the fourth entry in the Mission: Impossible franchise, an epic saga starring Viola Davis, and the first superhero film in a trilogy that changed the genre.
Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol (2011) Entertainment Robin Williams was truly one of one. Williams first burst onto the scene for his exceptional stand-up comedy. After breaking through as on Mork & Mindy, Williams became one of Hollywood's finest actors. Williams' ability to mix comedy with drama led to memorable roles in The Fisher King, Awakenings, The Birdcage, and Aladdin.
With nearly 40 years of credits, there are new movies to stream films that feature different sides of Williams. We picked five great Robin Williams movies you should watch, including Dead Poets Society, Good Will Hunting, and Jumanji.
Dead Poets Society (1989) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
