Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Thanksgiving’s ending, explained By Alex Welch Close Tristar Pictures Warning: This article contains spoilers for Thanksgiving (2023).
Director Eli Roth’s new horror-comedy, Thanksgiving , ends as all slasher movies should: With a few last-minute twists. Its third act follows the film’s protagonist, Jessica (Nell Verlaque), as she escapes a horrifying dinner party massacre orchestrated by Thanksgiving ‘s masked killer and makes it to a nearby warehouse. Once there, she discovers her town’s sheriff, Eric Newlon (Patrick Dempsey), lying unconscious near his patrol car and, shortly thereafter, watches through one of the nearby warehouse’s windows as her ex-boyfriend, Bobby (Jalen Thomas Brooks), takes off the same mask worn by her murderous pursuer.
Assuming the worst, Jessica teams up with Sheriff Newlon to try to take Bobby, down only for the latter to escape. Newlon calls in backup and a manhunt for Bobby begins. However, just when it seems like Jessica has successfully saved the lives of her father and several of her remaining friends, she notices some of the same burrs stuck to Newlon’s boots that got stuck to her own legs as she ran away from the film’s masked slasher only an hour or so earlier. Unfortunately, it doesn’t take long for Newlon to notice the burrs on his boots and deduce that Jessica has realized that he is, in fact, the killer that has been targeting her and her friends for the past few days.
Tristar Pictures Trapping Jessica in a secluded room with him, Newlon reveals that his secret lover, Amanda Collins (Gina Gershon), was one of the victims of the previous year’s Black Friday massacre. The incident was the direct result of not only gross negligence on the part of Jessica’s rich father, Thomas (Rick Hoffman), but also the immature behavior of her and her friends. In case that wasn’t bad enough, Newlon further reveals that Amanda was pregnant with his baby when she was killed. Jessica, for her part, realizes that Newlon had been using his position as the town’s sheriff to get as much information from her as he could about everyone responsible for Amanda’s death.
The Marvels’ ending, explained The Morning Show season 3 ending, explained Every Halloween movie, ranked from worst to best After Jessica escaped his gruesome Thanksgiving ceremony, Newlon planned on framing Bobby, whom he’d previously kidnapped and drugged, for all of his crimes. When he’s just on the verge of killing her and finishing his plan, however, Jessica reveals that she’s been secretly live-streaming his confession. Enraged, Newlon charges at Jessica only to be hit by a hammer thrown through the room’s window by Bobby, who rushes in and saves his ex-girlfriend.
As the two teenagers attempt to get out of the warehouse alive, they’re stalked by an ax-wielding Newlon, who comes dangerously close several times to cutting both of their lives short. Jessica, thankfully, manages to use the flammable gas in a nearby inflatable turkey and the gunpowder of an antique, pilgrim-era musket to blindside Newlon with a devastating explosion. Hours later, Jessica is reunited with her surviving friends and family members, and it seems like everything has ended as well as possible for Thanksgiving ’s remaining would-be victims. That is, at least, until the film serves up one final, tried-and-true horror movie twist.
Pief Weyman / Tristar Pictures As Jessica and Bobby sit in an ambulance outside the warehouse where they faced off with Newlon, she overhears a couple of firefighters note that they didn’t find a single body within the building’s charred remains. Roth emphasizes this reveal with a shot of a masked firefighter walking away from the warehouse — seemingly implying that Dempsey’s Sheriff Newlon will be back to unleash more violence in the future. Later that night, Jessica wakes up from a nightmare in which she’s attacked by Newlon’s burning body. The purposefully open-ended moment suggests that she, like Thanksgiving ’s presumably still-alive villain, won’t be relaxing or resting anytime soon.
The film, in other words, not only sets the stage for it to be the first installment of a new horror franchise, but it also leaves plenty on the table for a potential sequel. Of course, whether or not Thanksgiving ’s story will ever actually be continued remains to be seen.
Thanksgiving is now playing in theaters.
Editors' Recommendations The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes’ ending, explained Upload season 3’s ending, explained 3 great PG-13 horror movies to check out if you like the Five Nights at Freddy’s movie His House is the scariest movie on Netflix right now. Here’s why you should watch it The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon ending, explained Entertainment In a theatrical landscape dominated by franchises, sequels, and IP, horror remains one of the most reliable genres at the box office. Audiences have proven they will come out to the theater for horror movies. Classics like Jaws and The Exorcist are among the biggest horror hits of all time. The horror genre also has spawned numerous success stories of low-budget films churning huge profits. Notable examples include Paranormal Activity and The Blair Witch Project.
However, not every horror film can be a hit. Some movies flop hard at the box office, with losses exceeding $100 million. Below, we listed the seven biggest horror movie bombs of all time, ranked by their estimated losses adjusted for inflation.
Entertainment Warning: This article contains spoilers for The Fall of the House of Usher (2023).
The first episode of Netflix's The Fall of the House of Usher sets up a few mysteries that the series doesn’t solve until its eighth and final installment. The first is, of course, why Verna (Carla Gugino) even chose to orchestrate the deaths of all of the Usher children. It’s also unclear initially why Lenore (Kyliegh Curran) is constantly texting her grandfather, Roderick (Bruce Greenwood), during his conversation with C. Auguste Dupin (Carl Lumbly). Lastly, there’s the nature of the mysterious “confession” that Roderick has promised Dupin. After all, what could a man so blatantly unscrupulous possibly have to confess? How The Fall of the House of Usher sets up its big finale The Fall of the House of Usher’s finale, fortunately, answers all of these questions. Early on, the episode flashes back in time to finally reveal what happened the night that Roderick and his sister, Madeline (played in her youth by Willa Fitzgerald), first crossed paths with Verna. As anyone who has read Edgar Allan Poe’s The Cask of Amontillado may have guessed, it's revealed that the two used Fortunato Pharmaceuticals’ 1980 New Year’s Eve party as a way to lure Roderick’s boss, Rufus Griswold (Michael Trucco), into the company’s basement. The two then drugged Rufus and sealed him alive behind a brick wall in order to complete their takeover of Fortunato. (The twinkling Roderick has heard throughout the series and the jester that’s haunted him are both callbacks to the costume Rufus was wearing the night he was killed.) Entertainment The 1980s were a big time for horror cinema. Many bloody slashers, genre-benders, and video nasties popped up in this decade, and the fact many of them are so beloved has been a significant factor in the wave of '80s nostalgia that has permeated pop culture in recent years.
And with Halloween just around the corner, horror fans will likely be breaking out these classics this season, as they are hands-down the best scary pictures to have risen from the '80s.
10. The Evil Dead (1981) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
