Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Thanksgiving review: a gruesome, cutthroat horror comedy By Alex Welch Close A refreshingly brutal throwback to the slasher genre's greatest hits Several unforgettably gory set pieces and kills An enjoyable comic horror tone throughout A runtime that's about 10 minutes too long Several uninteresting major and supporting characters Thanksgiving is a deliciously mean-spirited, gnarly horror-comedy. Like Ti West’s X , it feels like a throwback to simpler times when horror movies could be gory, bloodthirsty, darkly funny, and not much more than that. In many ways, that’s exactly what Thanksgiving is. Directed by Eli Roth, it’s a feature film version of the trailer that he shot for 2007’s Grindhouse.
 Back then, Thanksgiving was just a trailer for a cheeky, low-budget horror movie that didn’t even exist. Sixteen years later, it now very much does.
The new film is just as much of a send-up of holiday-themed horror movies like Black Christmas and Silent Night, Deadly Night as the trailer that inspired it, but it’s also more than that. What was once just an endearingly rough-and-ready, low-budget slice of pure horror pastiche has now been expanded into a full-blown Eli Roth gorefest — one that is every bit as repulsive and gleefully violent as that suggests. It’s everything that it needs to be and absolutely nothing more. In a time when mainstream slasher movies like it are increasingly hard to come by, that’s perfectly OK.
Tristar Pictures Set in the town of Plymouth, Massachusetts, Thanksgiving opens on its eponymous night and follows an array of characters as they all eventually end up at the same supercenter for Black Friday. Convinced by his second wife to try and capitalize on the financial opportunities presented by the commercial holiday, the store’s owner, Thomas Wright (Rick Hoffman), orders his employees to work Thanksgiving night and supplies them with only two security guards to control all of the impatient consumers literally pounding at the gates to get inside. When Thomas’ daughter, Jessica (Nell Verlaque), helps her friends get in early, she unknowingly enrages everyone waiting outside.
This underrated 2023 horror movie on Netflix deserves more love. Here’s why you should watch it The best horror movies on Amazon Prime right now 3 underrated horror sequels that deserve to be watched again Before long, everything turns to chaos: workers are trampled, throats are cut on broken shards of glass, and unsuspecting innocents are pulverized by shopping carts. This sequence, an over-the-top critique of consumer culture and thoughtless capitalistic decision-making, marks the moment when Thanksgiving fulfills the violent, tongue-in-cheek promises of its original Grindhouse trailer. Behind the camera, Roth lingers on every instance of skin-tearing violence — ensuring that the film’s opening Black Friday massacre functions as an effective prologue for everything that follows.
One year later, the citizens of Plymouth find themselves terrorized by a masked killer who seems intent on making everyone who was present and responsible for the riot pay for their sins. As Jessica, Sheriff Eric Newlon (Patrick Dempsey), and the film’s other characters attempt to uncover the killer’s identity, Thanksgiving adopts a familiar small-town slasher movie structure. It spends most of its runtime bouncing from scenes of quiet paranoia and suburban humor to outrageous, cartoonishly violent set pieces and kills. The film, unfortunately, doesn’t always strike the perfect balance between those two modes.
Pief Weyman / Tristar Pictures Thanksgiving , which could have easily been about 10 minutes shorter than it is, occasionally fails to keep up the light, breezy pace that its story demands. It gets lost in the melodramatic relationships between its teenage characters and doesn’t fully justify all of its various subplots and tangents. While the film’s performers all seem perfectly aware of the tone they’re meant to support and the jobs they’re each meant to do, Jeff Rendell’s script doesn’t give viewers much of a reason to care whether or not any of their characters survive. That fact doesn’t completely sink Thanksgiving , but it does result in several of its nonviolent sections falling flat.
For the most part, though, Roth’s latest effort is an easily digestible cocktail of bloody horror and pitch-black comedy. The film’s kills are all not only strikingly well-staged and paced, but are frequently delivered with a winking, wry edge that makes some of its most brutal moments easier to stomach. Whether it be the unopened waffle iron box that one Black Friday customer literally bleeds over or a disturbing use of two corn on the cob holders, Roth never fails to throw in darkly funny details that effectively punctuate each of Thanksgiving ’s moments of slasher horror with laugh-worthy visual punchlines.
Thanksgiving is an undeniably one-note horror movie. It’s a 106-minute joke that sticks to the strengths of both its famously macabre director and the slasher subgenre that it so clearly adores. One could criticize it for its lack of originality, but that would be missing the point of Thanksgiving , which just wants to give horror fans a fun time at the movie theater. It does so with near-flying colors, to the point that its contentment with its surface-level thrills and kills can be easily forgiven. After all, if any movie is allowed to just be a riff on something you’ve seen a million times before, why not let it be a film that lovingly spit-roasts the very American holiday that is all about replaying the same hits every year? Thanksgiving is now playing in theaters. For related content, please read Thanksgiving’s ending, explained.
Editors' Recommendations Thanksgiving’s ending, explained 3 great PG-13 horror movies to check out if you like the Five Nights at Freddy’s movie Creature is Netflix’s most underrated horror series right now. Here’s why you should watch it The best horror movies on Hulu right now 7 horror movie scenes that went too far Product Reviews Entertainment In a theatrical landscape dominated by franchises, sequels, and IP, horror remains one of the most reliable genres at the box office. Audiences have proven they will come out to the theater for horror movies. Classics like Jaws and The Exorcist are among the biggest horror hits of all time. The horror genre also has spawned numerous success stories of low-budget films churning huge profits. Notable examples include Paranormal Activity and The Blair Witch Project.
However, not every horror film can be a hit. Some movies flop hard at the box office, with losses exceeding $100 million. Below, we listed the seven biggest horror movie bombs of all time, ranked by their estimated losses adjusted for inflation.
Entertainment October tends to be the best time of the year to revisit horror movies, and Netflix is no exception. This month, the streamer has added director Tate Taylor's 2019 horror flick, Ma, which has already become one of the top films on the most popular movies on Netflix.
Ma is not a typical horror story, and the lead character, played by Octavia Spencer, is not some random slasher villain. There's a method to Ma's madness, and it makes the film one of the most unique horror movies in years. But if you need more convincing, here are three reasons why you should watch Ma on Netflix.
Octavia Spencer's terrifying performance Entertainment Netflix remains the king of the streaming world with numerous acclaimed movies in its library, and horror is among its strongest genres. The best horror movies on Netflix have the streamer's seal of quality, delivering the chills and thrills fans are looking for while providing a high-quality experience. To make things better, there's always something to watch, whether it's a morbid comedy for those looking for lighthearted thrills or a genuinely terrifying psychological horror picture to satiate the most demanding fans.
Indeed, Netflix’s library of horror films is a hellishly delightful curation that we wholeheartedly recommend. That collection is always changing, with new movies coming and going each month. So grab a blanket and brace yourself for an evening of screams and good, old-fashioned scares.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
