Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now By Dan Girolamo Close Netflix is one of the most popular streaming services in the world, with nearly 250 million subscribers. And just what do those people tend to watch? In particular, what is the most popular movie on Netflix? Each week, the streaming service releases a list of its 10 most-watched movies over the preceding seven days. Below, we’ve listed the top 10 movies in the U.S. from November 6 to November 12 , along with general information about each film, such as genre, rating, cast, and synopsis.
Netflix Looking for something else? We’ve also rounded up the best shows on Netflix , the best movies on Netflix , the best movies on Amazon Prime , and the best movies on Disney+.
 For Netflix fans, check out the 10 most popular shows on Netflix right now.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
10. Legion (2010) r 100m Horror, Action, Fantasy Paul Bettany, Dennis Quaid, Lucas Black Scott Stewart watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Not to be confused with FX’s Legion , the X-Men show from Noah Hawley, 2010’s Legion is an action movie about the Second Coming starring Paul Bettany and Dennis Quaid. Archangel Michael (Bettany) is a fallen angel who cuts off his wings and winds up in Los Angeles, where he raids a weapons warehouse and heads to the Mojave Desert. In the desert, there is a diner full of random customers, including Bob Hanson (Quaid), the diner’s owner; Charlie (Adrianne Palicki), a pregnant waitress; and Jeep (Lucas Black), Bob’s mechanic son who loves Charlie.
When the sky turns black around the diner, Michael informs the patrons that God has lost faith in humanity and sent angels to destroy the human race. Michael disobeyed God’s order to kill Charlie’s baby, the savior of the human race. Michael and the customers must band together and fight against God, the most powerful enemy in the universe.
Read less 9. Sly (2023) r 97m Documentary Sylvester Stallone, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Quentin Tarantino Thom Zimny watch on Netflix watch on Netflix When you think of movie stars of the last 50 years, Sylvester Stallone’s name will inevitably come up, and rightfully so. Stallone’s iconic roles include Rocky Balboa in The Rocky franchise, John Rambo in the Rambo films, and Barney Ross in The Expendables.
 The world knows his onscreen persona, but what is Sly like when the cameras aren’t rolling? Sly , a new documentary, tells the origin story of one of the world’s most famous actors. From humble beginnings to the top of Hollywood, Stallone embodied the grit and underdog nature of Rocky Balboa to sustain a career that’s lasted over 50 years.
Read less 8. The Impossible (2012) pg-13 113m Adventure, Drama, Thriller Naomi Watts, Ewan McGregor, Tom Holland J. A. Bayona watch on Netflix watch on Netflix A harrowing tale of a family’s fight to survive the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami comes to life in The Impossible.
 Directed by J. A. Bayona, The Impossible follows a family of five – Doctor Maria Bennett (Naomi Watts), her husband Henry (Ewan McGregor), and their three sons Lucas ( Uncharted’s Tom Holland ), Thomas (Samuel Joslin), and Simon (Oaklee Pendergast) – travel to Khao Lak, Thailand for Christmas vacation.
On December 24, 2004, a mammoth tsunami from the Indian Ocean hits the resort, separating the entire family. Eventually, Maria and Lucas reunite, while Henry and the two youngest boys find each other. Because of the terrifying subject matter, The Impossible is a compelling story of perseverance and an inspiring tale of the human spirit.
Read less 7. Insidious: The Red Door (2023) pg-13 107m Horror, Mystery, Thriller Ty Simpkins, Patrick Wilson, Rose Byrne Patrick Wilson watch on Netflix watch on Netflix One of the sneaky hits of the year is Insidious: The Red Door , the fifth installment in the Insidious franchise. Patrick Wilson, who stars as patriarch Josh Lambert, steps into the director’s chair for the first time to helm The Red Door.
 Nearly a decade after the events of Insidious , Josh is divorced from Renai Lambert (Rose Byrne) and estranged from his son Dalton (Ty Simpkins).
Josh decides to drive Dalton to college to repair their father-son relationship. While at college, the Further comes back into Dalton’s life as he starts to see visions of the door. Haunted by demons, the Lamberts must venture back into the Further and end this evil once and for all.
Read less 6. 13 Going on 30 (2004) pg-13 98m Comedy, Fantasy, Romance Jennifer Garner, Mark Ruffalo, Judy Greer Gary Winick watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Remember the feeling you had as a teenager when you wished to be older? For 13-year-old Jenna Rink (Christa B. Allen), her teenage life is tough, so much so that wishes to be an adult. Jenna gets her wish on her 13th birthday when she magically wakes up as a 30-year-old (Jennifer Garner). Adulthood has been good to Jenna. Jenna lives in a gorgeous New York City apartment and works as a fashion editor at a prestigious magazine.
However, Jenna learns she stopped talking to the people who loved her the most, including her best friend Matty (Mark Ruffalo). Determined to right her wrongs, Jenna strives to be a better adult, but it turns out that she wants another shot at junior high.
13 Going on 30 is a Netflix rom-com you need to watch in November.
Read less 5. No Hard Feelings (2023) r 104m Comedy, Romance Jennifer Lawrence, Andrew Barth Feldman, Laura Benanti Gene Stupnitsky watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The studio summer comedy returned in a big way with No Hard Feelings , starring Jennifer Lawrence. Maddie Barker (Lawrence) is a foul-mouthed Uber driver facing bankruptcy in Montauk. Due to a failure to pay property taxes, Maddie’s car is repossessed, increasing the likelihood of her home being taken away. Desperate for money, Maddie responds to an unusual Craigslist request from wealthy crypto investors Allison and Laird Gecker (Laura Benanti and Matthew Broderick).
The proposition: Maddie will be gifted a Buick Regal if she dates the couple’s 19-year-old son Percy (Andrew Barth Feldman), a shy introvert with no social skills. Maddie has to boost Percy’s confidence before he goes to college. Let the raunchiness ensue.
Read less 4. Locked In (2023) r 96m Thriller Famke Janssen, Rose Williams, Alex Hassell Nour Wazzi watch on Netflix watch on Netflix It’s a battle between a daughter and her mother-in-law with deadly consequences in Locked In , Netflix’s new romantic thriller. Katherine is a former Hollywood actor who is paralyzed after a terrible accident. By blinking, Katherine can communicate with her nurse, Nicky (Anna Friel).
Nicky learns of a murder that may involve Katherine. Through flashbacks, we see that Katherine adopted Lina (Rose Williams), her best friend’s daughter. Lina marries Katherine’s stepson, Jamie (Finn Cole), but they begin to grow apart after she falls in love with Jamie’s doctor. It’s a treacherous love affair that ends in a tragedy. But for who? Read less 3. Minions (2015) pg 91m Family, Animation, Adventure, Comedy Sandra Bullock, Jon Hamm, Michael Keaton Kyle Balda, Pierre Coffin watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The childlike yellow creatures get their own movie in Minions , the spinoff/prequel to Despicable Me.
 Three Minions – Kevin, Stuart, and Bob – struggle to find a master after failing to work for a T. rex, Count Dracula, and Napoleon. The Minions hitchhike to Orlando in the late 1960s and meet Scarlet Overkill (Sandra Bullock) at a villain convention.
Scarlet, the world’s first female supervillain, and her husband, Herb (Jon Hamm), recruit the Minions to join them in London to steal Queen Elizabeth II’s crown. If the Minions succeed, they will receive a reward, but if they fail, Scarlet will eliminate the Minion race. Expect a lot of hijinks from these lovable creatures.
Read less 2. Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse (2023) pg 140m Animation, Action, Adventure Shameik Moore, Hailee Steinfeld, Jason Schwartzman Joaquim Dos Santos, Justin K. Thompson, Kemp Powers watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Not only is Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse a fantastic sequel, but it’s one of the best-reviewed movies of 2023.
 Miles Morales (Shameik Moore) is trying to live a normal life while acting as Brooklyn’s friendly neighborhood Spider-Man. He even reunites with his crush, Gwen Stacy/Spider-Gwen (Hailee Steinfeld).
Yet, life is never calm as Miles is suddenly transported across the multiverse, where he meets a group of Spider-People known as the Spider-Society. Miguel O’Hara/Spider-Man 2099 (Oscar Isaac) is the leader of the Spider-People, who serve as protectors of the multiverse. When a new threat called the Spot (Jason Schwartzman) emerges, Miles and the Spider-People disagree on how to face this dangerous entity. Miles must do what’s difficult to protect those he loves in this spell-binding adventure.
Read less 1. The Killer (2023) r 118m Crime, Thriller Michael Fassbender, Tilda Swinton, Charles Parnell David Fincher watch on Netflix watch on Netflix David Fincher is back doing what he does best: crafting psychological thrillers. His latest entry into the genre is The Killer.
 Michael Fassbender stars as the Killer, a studious assassin who lives by this motto: “Stick to your plan, anticipate, don’t improvise.” Despite his attention to detail, the Killer makes a crucial mistake as a planned hit takes a turn for the worst. The error leads the Killer down a global manhunt, going head-to-head with his employer. If you love Zodiac and Se7en , you will enjoy The Killer.
 More importantly, an entire generation will be introduced to the greatness of The Smiths.
Read less Editors' Recommendations The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now The best movies on Hulu right now (November 2023) Best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max (HBO), and more Best Products Netflix Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment When you need to keep the kids occupied for a while, it's helpful to know the best kids movies on Netflix right now.
Netflix has an enormous library of kid-friendly content, including a host of original choose-your-own-adventure stories, but it's natural as a parent to want to know what your kids is watching. So, to help you find something quickly, we keep tabs on the collection every month and surface the best options here.
Entertainment There's nothing better than a long holiday weekend to catch up on your favorite films on Netflix. This weekend has a particularly strong lineup that includes the streaming debut of David Fincher's The Killer, which was briefly in theaters last month. Additionally, the horror title, Insidious: The Red Door, has some post-Halloween scares, while Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse remains one of the best options for movie lovers of all ages.
Want to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Every week on Friday, we go over the newly available films to update our list of the best movies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment For the first Holiday weekend of November, some surprising choices are among the most popular shows on Netflix. Coming in at number one is a documentary called Escaping Twin Flames, which explores an organization that embraces cult-like techniques. On the other end of the top 10, Netflix's Blue Eye Samurai is defying expectations as one of the rare anime original series to become a breakout hit among all shows on the streamer.
There won't always be something new on Netflix as we head into the holiday season. But we're committed to helping you get the most out of your Netflix subscription. Every Friday, we update our list of the best shows on Netflix, so you never have to miss your next favorite series to binge.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
