Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The 10 most popular shows on Max right now By Blair Marnell Close The Gilded Age and Last Week Tonight with John Oliver have once again retained their stranglehold of the No. 1 and 2 positions on the list of the 10 most popular shows on Max this week. Meanwhile, Rap Sh!t has jumped to the fifth position, while Doom Patrol and Ghost Adventures have left the list entirely.
Of course, when shows leave, new series take their place on the list. This week, the second season of HBO’s Julia premieres at No. 10, while the HBO original documentary, Love Has Won: The Cult of Mother God , has settled into into the eighth slot.
Keep reading for our complete countdown of the 10 most popular shows on Max, as of November 17.
The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November Looking for something else? We’ve also rounded up the 10 most popular movies on Max , the best movies on Max , the best shows on Max , the best shows on Netflix , the best movies on Netflix , the best movies on Amazon Prime , and the best movies on Disney+.
 For Netflix fans, check out the 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now and the 10 most popular shows on Netflix right now.
10. Julia (2022) tv-ma 2 Seasons Drama Sarah Lancashire, David Hyde Pierce, Brittany Bradford Daniel Goldfarb watch on max watch on max Julia Child (Sarah Lancashire) left such a large impression on America’s cultural landscape that you’re likely to have already seen her portrayed in previous adaptations of her life. Max’s Julia focuses on the time period when the title character was the host of The French Chef and a renowned cookbook author.
Throughout the first season, Julia had to fight to keep her show on the air. Now in season 2, perhaps Julia can begin to enjoy the fruits of her labors. But first, Julia may have to put out a few proverbial fires both on her show and in her personal life.
Read less 9. Welcome to Plathville (2019) tv-pg 5 Seasons Reality watch on max watch on max Read less 8. Love Has Won: The Cult of Mother God (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Documentary Amy Carlson watch on max watch on max Almost everyone wants to find something to believe in, but you may have a hard time understanding why anyone was drawn to the titular cult in HBO’s new documentary series Love Has Won: The Cult of Mother God.
 The late Amy Carlson was the founder of this cult, and she came from very humble beginnings. Carlson also abandoned her family when she declared herself to be Mother God and formed a cult of personality around herself.
This three-episode series documents how the cult was able to attract followers online, and how the cult’s internal response to Carlson’s health problems likely hastened her death. Regardless, the thing that Carlson created lives on, even though its members have splintered.
Read less 7. Scavengers Reign (2023) tv-14 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama, Animation Sunita Mani, Wunmi Mosaku, Alia Shawkat Charles Huettner, Joe Bennett watch on max watch on max Do you remember all of those Earth-like worlds that you’ve seen in Star Trek and Star Wars ? You won’t see anything like that in Scavengers Reign , the new Max original animated series that takes place on an alien world that looks like something created by Studio Ghibli.
Azi (Wunmi Mosaku), Levi (Alia Shawkat), Ursula (Sunita Mani), Sam (Bob Stephenson), and Kamen (Ted Travelstead) have crashed on an unnamed planet that is unlike anything they’ve ever seen. This alien world is very inhospitable, and it may even turn the crew against each other when it unleashes some body horror transformations on the unsuspecting humans who should never have come there.
Read less 6. 90 Day Fiancé (2014) tv-14 10 Seasons Reality watch on max watch on max Welcome to the flagship show of the “90 Day Universe.” On 90 Day Fiancé , couples are comprised of American citizens and a potential partner from another country who travels to the U.S. The couples then have 90 days to court each other, fall in love, and get married, or else the partner has to go home to their country. Maybe this show should be called Project Green Card.
Read less 5. Rap Sh!t (2022) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy Aida Osman, KaMillion, Jonica Booth Issa Rae watch on max watch on max Things aren’t great between Shawna (Aida Osman), and Mia (KaMillion) as season 2 of Rap Sh!t begins. Although the two women are about to go on tour with Reina Reign (Kat Cunning), it’s very fresh in Mia’s mind that Shawna nearly flushed their careers down the toilet because of her credit card scam in the first season.
Getting back on the same page won’t be easy for Shawna or Mia, but if they don’t fix this problem fast, then their dreams of achieving fame as rappers may never be fulfilled.
Read less 4. Fixer Upper: The Hotel (2023) tv-g 1 Season Reality Chip Gaines, Joanna Gaines watch on max watch on max Read less 3. Lost Women of Highway 20 (2023) tv-14 1 Season Documentary, Crime Octavia Spencer watch on max watch on max Between the ‘70s and the ‘90s, Highway 20 in Oregon was infamous for the number of young women and girls who were either sexually assaulted, kidnapped, or murdered. Now, the new true crime series, Lost Women of Highway 20 , is taking a look back at the individual cases and the investigations into the crimes.
Octavia Spencer hosts the series, which also features interviews with survivors, family members, and law enforcement veterans.
Read less 2. Last Week Tonight with John Oliver (2014) tv-ma 10 Seasons Talk, Comedy, News John Oliver John Oliver watch on max watch on max Read less 1. The Gilded Age (2022) tv-ma 2 Seasons Drama Christine Baranski, Cynthia Nixon, Carrie Coon Julian Fellowes watch on max watch on max Downton Abbey creator Julian Fellowes brought The Gilded Age to HBO, and that investment is paying off with the show’s debut on top of this list following the second season premiere. The series is set about 20 years after the Civil War, and it chronicles the clash of a “new money” family, the Russells, and the van Rhijn-Brook family, who are about as “old money” as it gets.
Marian Brook (Louisa Jacobson) steps right into the middle of that when she is forced by circumstance to move in with her wealthy aunts, Ada Brook ( Sex and the City ‘s Cynthia Nixon) and Agnes van Rhijn (Christine Baranski). Meanwhile, Bertha Russell (Carrie Coon) will do almost anything to get the high society people to accept and like her. But if anyone gets in Bertha’s way, they’ll soon discover that it’s a mistake to cross her.
Read less Editors' Recommendations The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The 10 most popular TV shows on Netflix right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now HBO Max Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now include plenty of romantic comedies to watch while snuggling up with your partner, pet, or favorite blanket.
There's also a concert tour documentary courtesy of Taylor Swift, which is particularly topical due to the singing sensation's dominance of the pop culture zeitgeist. We've sorted through the best feel-good movies on Netflix and feel good about the list below.
Entertainment The end of the year is almost here: can you believe it’s almost 2024? As you wind things down at work, take time off to enjoy with the family, and relax, it’s the perfect time to curl up with a great show. There are plenty of new and returning shows this month that are available through all the top streaming services. Browse this list and you’re bound to find a few worth adding to your nightly viewing selection.
There’s everything from dramas to comedies, a British heist series, a Canadian gem, and the end of a royal era. Have a look at these six shows you need to watch in December and pick the ones you want to dive into before the year is over.
Slow Horses season 3 (December 1) Slow Horses — Season 2 Official Trailer | Apple TV+ Entertainment November is chock-full of wonderful new shows you might have heard about already, including Monarch: Legacy of Monsters, the latest in the MonsterVerse featuring Godzilla and starring Kurt Russell, and the murder mystery A Murder at the End of the World starring The Crown's Emma Corrin. But as we head full force into the holiday season, there are plenty of other fabulous shows being released that aren’t talked about as much.
You won’t want to let these three hidden gem streaming TV shows fly under your radar in November, as all of them have been getting largely positive reviews so far.
Lawmen: Bass Reeves Lawmen: Bass Reeves | Official Trailer | Paramount+ Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
