Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes review: a worthwhile prequel By Alex Welch Close Viola Davis, Peter Dinklage, and Jason Schwartzman's performances An engrossing, propulsive second act Francis Lawrence's visually impressive directorial approach An overly convoluted final third Unnecessary, unsatisfying romantic subplot between its two leads A runtime that's about 20 minutes too long It’s been eight years since The Hunger Games: Mockingjay — Part 2 was released, and a lot has changed in the intervening years. That film, which was believed at the time to be its franchise’s final installment, was the product of the dystopian YA craze that partly defined the Hollywood of the 2010s. Nowadays, Hollywood is more reticent than it was in 2012 to try its hand at adapting popular YA book series, and most of the adaptations that are produced premiere as TV shows on streaming platforms like Netflix and Disney+.
That fact hasn’t stopped Lionsgate from trying to reignite viewers’ interest in its once-popular YA franchise with the release of The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes this week. Is there still a place for The Hunger Games in today’s world? The answer may vary from person to person, even as The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes proves that the franchise’s core ideas regarding the ever-present threat of totalitarianism are more relevant than they once were.
The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes’ ending, explained The 10 most anticipated movies of fall 2023 Where to watch The Hunger Games movies The film, an adaptation of Suzanne Collins’ 2020 novel of the same name, is a prequel that places its focus on the series’ central villain, Coriolanus Snow, and explores how the seeds for his reign over the fictional, dystopian nation of Panem were first planted. Directed by series veteran Francis Lawrence, the film is an overly long, frequently compelling dystopian drama. Over the course of its 157-minute runtime, the prequel takes its franchise to greater visual heights than ever before, but it ultimately adds little to the series’ already expansive treatise on the devastating cost of fascism.
Murray Close / Lionsgate Set around 60 years before the events of the original Hunger Games films, The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes picks up with Snow (Tom Blyth), not when he’s a powerful politician, but much earlier in his life, when he’s the driven, impoverished young patriarch of a once-great family. When viewers meet him at the start of the movie, he’s determined to reclaim the wealth and power that his family had before his father died during a war between the Capitol and Panem’s outlying districts. His mission to climb up his nation’s social ranks is interrupted, however, when he and his fellow students are told that the winner of their potentially life-changing class prize won’t be determined by their academic scores, but by which of them manages to mine the greatest performance out of the current batch of Hunger Games tributes.
Much to his surprise and initial chagrin, Snow is assigned to mentor Lucy Gray Baird (Rachel Zegler), the latest female tribute from District 12 (the same district that produced Jennifer Lawrence’s Katniss Everdeen). Intent on turning her into a star, Snow advises her to not only perform as often as she can for the Capitol’s citizens, but also to use his knowledge of the year’s Hunger Games arena to survive the brutal battle royale. The more time they spend together, the more attracted to each other they become. At the same time, Snow finds himself increasingly willing and capable of using the merciless structure of Panem’s authoritarian society to his advantage.
Thus, The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes is both an origin story for the Hunger Games’ greatest villain and an exploration of how easily one’s ambition can become a vessel for evil. For most of its runtime, the film succeeds at being both of those things. It does, however, begin to lose its grasp on its own story and pace once it moves into its second half, which relies on a handful of needlessly convoluted twists from Collins’ original novel. The film stretches on around 20 minutes longer than it should, and its script, penned by Michael Lesslie and Michael Arndt, holds on too tightly to the outline set by its source material. In its final third, the movie gets so lost in the intricacy of its own plot that the thematic weight of its climax is dulled a bit by the meandering path it takes to get there.
Murray Close / Lionsgate The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes isn’t the first Hunger Games film to suffer from an overattachment to its source material. Fortunately, like the franchise’s first four installments, which were elevated by noteworthy supporting performances from accomplished stars like Stanley Tucci, Woody Harrelson, and Philip Seymour Hoffman, the prequel also benefits greatly from its vibrant, well-cast array of older characters.
Widows and Suicide Squad star Viola Davis turns in a perfectly over-the-top performance as Dr. Volumnia Gaul, the Willy Wonka-esque head organizer and Gamemaker for the Hunger Games, while Peter Dinklage steals several scenes as Casca Highbottom, the inscrutable creator of the Games themselves. Jason Schwartzman also brings some much-needed, darkly comedic levity to the film as Lucretius Flickerman, a weatherman determined to turn the Hunger Games into a genuine spectacle.
Opposite them, Blyth and Zegler bring real charm to their dueling performances. Their scenes, however, suffer from a lack of chemistry between the two stars, which makes the romantic subplot involving their characters feel all the more superfluous. In its attempts to avoid painting Blyth’s future dictator in too endearing of a light, the film never fully commits one way or the other to his relationship. Is he legitimately attracted to her? Or is he solely using her for his own gain? The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes tries to answer those questions as ambiguously as possible, but it never takes viewers deeply enough into Snow’s mind for that to work. The result is a muddled storyline involving young, easily corruptible love that doesn’t hit as hard as the rest of the film’s more acidic moments and ideas.
Murray Close / Lionsgate Behind the camera, returning Hunger Games director Francis Lawrence and his cinematographer, Jo Willems, shoot the entirety of The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes with a mix of ultrawide lenses and full-frame IMAX cameras. In doing so, the pair frame each of the film’s characters as larger than life in a way that feels fitting for a movie that is so concerned with the insidiousness of not only authoritarianism itself, but also the propaganda that it tends to generate. It’s the most visually stunning Hunger Games movie to date — surpassing Lawrence’s Catching Fire , though, it never delivers a moment as satisfying as that film’s now-iconic IMAX transition.
Its various flaws prevent The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes from ever becoming the truly great blockbuster that it had the potential to be. It doesn’t miss the mark of greatness too widely to completely write it off, either. In the grand scope of the Hunger Games franchise, it sits comfortably below Catching Fire as the series’ second-best film to date. Whether or not it provides a satisfying enough reason for it to exist may be entirely up to you, but it also doesn’t give anyone any excuse to resent that it does.
The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes is now playing in theaters.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked Fall 2023 movie guide The Hunger Games prequel The Ballad Of Songbirds and Snakes gets first trailer Blonde review: a striking and tough Marilyn Monroe biopic See How They Run review: a charming but slight whodunit Product Reviews Sci-Fi Entertainment Animated adaptations of video games are in a surprisingly good place right now -- particularly on Netflix, where shows like Arcane, Castlevania, and even Carmen Sandiego have delivered rewarding extensions of their respective franchises. That continues with Cyberpunk: Edgerunners, which serves up a wild anime adventure set in the world of 2020's Cyberpunk 2077.
Directed by Hiroyuki Imaishi (Gurren Lagann) and Hiromi Wakabayashi (Star Wars: Visions), Cyberpunk: Edgerunners follows a teenage boy pulled into a dark world of high-tech mercenaries known as "Edgerunners." As he's drawn ever deeper into the world of body modification and corporate espionage, David (voiced by Zach Aguilar in the English version of the series) soon finds himself struggling to figure out what's truly important and where to draw the line when it comes to his cybernetic implants.
Entertainment Regardless of how much they might suggest otherwise, no one wants to be seen as uncool. Who Invited Them, the new horror comedy from writer-director Duncan Birmingham, understands that. To its credit, the film also understands that a person's desire to be accepted and welcomed by those they admire can, in certain instances, lead them to ignore their own instincts and perform acts that they wouldn’t normally consider doing.
Consequently, while Who Invited Them never quite reaches the heights it would need to in order to be considered one of this year’s genre gems, it does manage to steal a trick from every great horror movie’s playbook. The film, which premieres exclusively on Shudder this week, weaponizes its characters’ core desires and forces them into a situation that only grows weirder and more distressing the further into its runtime Who Invited Them gets.
Entertainment For better or worse, Spin Me Round is a worthy addition to writer-director Jeff Baena’s growing filmography.
The Alison Brie-led comedy has a lot in common with several of Baena’s past efforts. Like Life After Beth and The Little Hours, the film is a desert-dry farce about miscommunication and confusion. In certain moments, it even feels like Baena’s most precise examination of the strange places that romantic yearning can take a person. As was the case with Horse Girl, The Little Hours, and Joshy, too, Baena’s latest effort also boasts an impressive cast of capable, charming performers, including Alison Brie, Aubrey Plaza, Molly Shannon, and Fred Armisen.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
