Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 3 movies leaving Peacock in November you have to watch By Blair Marnell Close Peacock is dropping a lot of movies at the end of November, which is part of its normal churn of content. Some of the departing films, like E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial , have come and gone from Peacock so many times that we’ve lost track of the exact number. But it’s a high number, and you can bet that some of these movies will make their way back to Peacock at some point in the future.
The Hunger Games (2012) Step Brothers (2008) Trainwreck (2015) But why wait? You’ve already paid your subscription fee for the month of November, and you deserve to get the most out of it. To help you plan your next movie night, we’ve chosen one of the most successful YA adaptations, and two Judd Apatow-produced films for this list. These are the three movies leaving Peacock in November that you have to watch.
The Hunger Games (2012) Lionsgate With The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes now out in theaters, it’s a good time to revisit the films that started it all.
The Hunger Games and its three sequels are only on Peacock through the end of November, so catch them while you can. But if we have to pick a favorite, it’s an easy choice to go with the first film.
The Hunger Games cast Jennifer Lawrence as Katniss Everdeen, a young woman who volunteers for the annual battle to the death in order to spare her younger sister from the same fate.
5 best death game movies you should watch right now 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 3 PBS shows you should watch in November Katniss is accompanied to the Hunger Games by Peeta Mellark (Josh Hutcherson), a young man who professes his love for Katniss despite barely knowing her. Regardless, Katniss and Peeta are supposed to fight 22 other representatives from the various districts. Ultimately, there’s only supposed to be one victor in the Hunger Games. But the Gamesmaker, Seneca Crane (Wes Bentley), can’t resist giving Katniss and Peeta the hope that they can win it together.
Watch The Hunger Games on Peacock.
Step Brothers (2008) Sony Pictures The word man-child tends to be thrown around a lot, but it truly applies to the characters portrayed by Will Ferrell ( Barbie ) and John C. Reilly in Step Brothers.
 Brennan Huff (Ferrell) and Dale Doback (Reilly) are both around 40 years old and incredibly immature. Brennan still lives with his mom, Nancy Huff (Mary Steenburgen), while Dale never moved out of the house that belongs to his father, Dr. Robert Doback (Richard Jenkins).
When Nancy and Robert fall in love and get married, Brennan and Dale become stepbrothers against their will. Over time, the duo discovers that they have a lot in common. However, Nancy and Robert are both increasingly fed up with their childish antics, which may force Brennan and Dale to actually grow up.
Watch Step Brothers on Peacock.
Trainwreck (2015) Universal Pictures Amy Schumer wrote the screenplay for Trainwreck , while starring in the film as Amy Townsend, a young woman with an alcohol problem who doesn’t really know how to be happy. Not even Amy’s boyfriend, Steven (John Cena), can fill that gap in her heart. But an unassuming surgeon, Dr. Aaron Conners (Bill Hader), just may be the one to help Amy through her issues.
Or maybe not, since Amy fears commitment and she’s an expert on self-sabotage. Amid her tense relationship with her sister, Kim (Brie Larson), Amy also has to care for her ailing father, Gordon Townsend (Colin Quinn). But the stress of dealing with all of the drama in her life may prove to be too much for Amy.
Watch Trainwreck on Peacock.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Peacock you need to watch in November Peacock Sci-Fi Entertainment Sci-fi films never go out of style. From Alien and Back to the Future to Dune and Blade Runner, sci-fi films continue to improve thanks to new technology. Many sci-fi films find a home on Netflix and wind up on the streamer's 10 most popular movies list. Films like Don't Look Up, The Adam Project, and Bird Box are 10 of the most popular English films on Netflix ever.
The Adam Project is one of our picks for sci-fi movies to watch in November. Other selections include the epic sequel to Godzilla: King of the Monsters, and a sci-fi thriller about a pilot's fight for survival against the dinosaurs.
Godzilla vs. Kong (2021) Entertainment Last month on Hulu was all about horror. But in November, the new titles on Hulu include three of the best sci-fi movies of the last decade or so. For fans of the genre, this is a special treat that shouldn't be missed.
This month, our picks include Tom Cruise in a film unlike any of his previous blockbusters, as well as a cult classic robots-versus-aliens movie, and the final installment of a cult-classic film trilogy. These are the three sci-fi movies on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Edge of Tomorrow (2014) Entertainment Action movies can get you amped up for a big day to come, or even out of a bad mood. They often feature high-speed chases, intense fight scenes, and maybe even a bit of sci-fi. They can be set just about anywhere and usually include great fight choreography and/or visual effects, sometimes even thought-provoking storylines when you dig deeper beneath the surface.
The best action movies on Prime Video include a diverse mix of titles, both old and new. When it comes to three action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November, they all include A-list casts and one even spawned a franchise that is going strong after two decades.
V For Vendetta (2006) V For Vendetta (2005) Official Trailer #1 - Sc-Fi Thriller HD Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
