Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 2023 Feast Week live stream: watch Thanksgiving college basketball for free By Dan Girolamo Close Thanksgiving is not only reserved for football. Men’s college basketball games will be airing throughout Thanksgiving week. From November 16 to November 26, over 50 college basketball teams will play in early season tournaments.
2023 Feast Week schedule Watch the 2023 Feast Week live stream on ESPN platforms Watch the 2023 Feast Week live stream on Hulu with Live TV Watch the 2023 Feast Week live stream on YouTube TV Watch the 2023 Feast Week live stream on Sling TV Watch the 2023 Feast Week live stream on FuboTV Watch the 2023 Feast Week live stream from abroad with a VPN There are over 10 premier events set to air over the next 10 days, including the Maui Invitational, Empire Invitational, Battle 4 Atlantis, NIT Season Tip-Off, and Vegas Showdown. Kansas, Baylor, Villanova, North Carolina, Purdue, Gonzaga, and defending champion UConn are some of the notable teams that will play during Feast Week.
2023 Feast Week schedule Nov. 16-26, ESPN platforms present 2023 #FeastWeek college basketball coverage 🏀 75 games 🏀 150+ hours of coverage 🏀 13 premier events – including @MauiInv , @EmpireClassicBB , @B4AOfficial &amp; multiple @ESPNEvents tournaments Details: https://t.co/rJ0jgwFttb pic.twitter.com/HQnqASngHD &mdash; ESPN PR (@ESPNPR) November 16, 2023 Vivid Seats Legends Classic Dates: November 16-17 Teams: Auburn, Notre Dame, Oklahoma State, and St. Bonaventure.
Shriners Children’s Charleston Classic Dates: November 16, 17, and 19 Teams: St. John’s, North Texas, Dayton, LSU, Houston, Towson, Utah, and Wake Forest Myrtle Beach Invitational Dates: November 16, 17, and 19 Teams: Charleston, Vermont, Saint Louis, Wyoming, Wichita State, Coastal Carolina, Furman, and Liberty Continental Tire Main Event Dates: November 17-19 Teams: San Diego State, St. Mary’s, Washington, and Xavier Basketball Hall of Fame Tip-Off Dates: November 18-19 Teams: Mississippi State, Northwestern, Rhode Island, and Washington State Chris Paul’s HBCU Tip-Off Presented by AEA Foundation Dates: November 18-19 Teams: Cheyney, Virginia Union, Winston-Salem State, and Tuskegee Saatva Empire Classic Dates: November 19-20 Teams: UConn, Texas, Indiana, and Louisville Allstate Maui Invitational Dates: November 20-22 Teams: Kansas, Purdue, Marquette, Tennessee, Gonzaga, UCLA, Syracuse, and Chaminade Bad Boy Mowers B attle 4 Atlantis Dates: November 22-24 Teams: North Carolina, UNI, Villanova, Texas Tech, Michigan, Memphis, Arkansas, and Stanford.
NIT Season Tip-Off Dates: November 22 and 24 Teams: Baylor, Florida, Oregon State, and Pittsburgh Vegas Showdown Dates: November 23-24 Teams: Arizona State, BYU, NC State, and Vanderbilt ESPN Events Invitational Dates: November 23, 24, and 26 Teams: Penn State, Texas A&M, Florida Atlantic, Butler, Iowa State, VCU, Boise State, and Virginia Tech Watch the 2023 Feast Week live stream on ESPN platforms Wiki Commons the 2023 Feast Week will run from November 16 to November 26.
Over 70 games will air on ESPN platforms, including ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNU and ESPN+. Games can be accessed on your television, ESPN app, or ESPN.com. Log in with a TV provider for access.
Here’s the entire TV schedule.
New York Jets vs. Las Vegas Raiders live stream: watch the NFL for free Michigan Wolverines vs. Penn State Nittany Lions live stream: watch college football for free Arizona Wildcats vs. Duke Blue Devils live stream: watch college basketball for free A subscription to ESPN+ costs $11/per month, or you can save over 15% with an annual plan at $110/year. The ESPN bundle, however, is a more advantageous deal at $15/month because it includes ESPN+ (with ads), Disney+ (with ads), and Hulu (with ads). After watching college basketball, check out some of the best shows on ESPN+ , including The Pat McAfee Show , UFC Embedded , and 30 for 30.
Watch the 2023 Feast Week live stream on Hulu with Live TV Hulu Stream the ESPN platforms with a subscription to Hulu with Live TV.
 Hulu with Live TV recently overhauled its plans and raised prices. Hulu with Live TV on its own costs $76/month. However, the three bundled plans range from $77/month to $90/month. The cost variation depends on your ad preference.
Watch the 2023 Feast Week live stream on YouTube TV Joe Maring / Digital Trends YouTube TV offers live sports at an affordable price. Watch college basketball, football, baseball, golf, F1, and hockey on ESPN platforms with YouTube TV. Dedicated football fans can watch every NFL game with a subscription to NFL Sunday Ticket , which is 50% off the rest of the season. Subscribers will pay $51/month for the first three months of YouTube TV before it moves to $73/month. New customers can sign up for a free trial.
Watch the 2023 Feast Week live stream on Sling TV Digital Trends Sling TV remains one of the best live-streaming TV services on the market. Sling TV provides subscribers with flexibility and customization, two things that are hard to come by on cable. The two paid plans are Sling Orange at $40/month and Sling Blue at $45/month. Your preferences for sports and entertainment will determine which package to purchase. However, you can bundle both for $60/month. New customers will receive 50% off their first month.
Watch the 2023 Feast Week live stream on FuboTV Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends If you want a service with up to 255 channels, look into purchasing a plan on FuboTV.
 The three plans for FuboTV are Pro at $75/month, Elite at $85/month, and Premier at $95/month. ESPN platforms are available within each plan. For the first two months, FuboTV is taking $20 off for two months. Plus, new customers can sign up for the Fubo TV free trial.
Watch the 2023 Feast Week live stream from abroad with a VPN NordVPN If you travel regularly, then make sure to download a VPN service before you leave the country. VPNs ensure a better streaming experience by alleviating issues arising from geographic broadcast restrictions. Also, VPNs add another layer of privacy and protect your computer from phishing scams. One of the best VPN services available is NordVPN, which offers a 30-day money-back guarantee.
Editors' Recommendations 2023 Champions Classic live stream: watch college basketball for free USC Trojans vs. Oregon Ducks live stream: watch college football for free Los Angeles Clippers vs. Dallas Mavericks live stream: watch the NBA for free UFC live stream: How to watch UFC from anywhere, legally How to watch NBA basketball from anywhere for free Entertainment Man City takes on Young Boys today in the Champions League group stages. It seems almost certain that Man City will triumph with the team playing at home and also seemingly unstoppable right now. While there's still a chance for upset, it's going to be one to watch, especially for fans. Below, we've got all the best ways to watch the Man City vs Young Boys live stream, no matter where you are in the world. That means the ideal method to watch when in the US, UK, Canada, and Australia, as well as if you're traveling right now.
What time is Man City vs Young Boys? Man City vs Young Boys kicks off at the Etihad Stadium in Manchester on Tuesday November 7. The game starts at 3PM ET/12PM PT/8PM GMT. In Australia, that means an early morning kick off fixture of 7AM AEDT on November 8.
How to watch Man City vs Young Boys in the US If you want to watch the Champions League in the US, you need to sign up for Paramount Plus. It's the home of all Champions League games even if it is a smaller streaming service than some of the competition. Despite that, it hosts plenty of major sporting events so it's ideal for more than just soccer. Frequently, movies and TV shows are added to the service so keep an eye on what's new on Paramount Plus with many movies and TV shows added regularly. If it's just Man City vs Young Boys that you want to see, you can rely on a Paramount Plus free trial to do so. The trial only lasts seven days but that's sufficient for watching the match and getting a taste of what else Paramount Plus has to offer.
How to watch Man City vs Young Boys in the UK For UK viewers, TNT Sports is the new destination of Champions League soccer. It was previously known as BT Sports so if you had access to that, you'll still be able to watch the Champions League. For everyone else, you'll need to sign up for Discovery Premium+ which costs £29.99 per month. No free trial exists but it's a rolling contract so you're only committed to 30 days at a time. It's also possible to sign up through Amazon Prime if you prefer to do it that way.
Entertainment AC Milan vs PSG looks like it's going to be a pretty close game in the Champions League group stages. Both teams are well matched so it should be an exciting game for fans or neutrals to enjoy today. While AC Milan have been struggling to win in the Champions League lately, the team is still a force to be reckoned with, and PSG is always a tough one to beat. If you want to see how the match unfolds live, we've got all the answers you need on how to watch the Champions League game online. That goes for whether you're in the US, UK, Canada, or Australia.
What time is AC Milan vs PSG? AC Milan vs PSG takes place at the San Siro stadium in Milan, Italy. It kicks off at 3PM ET/12PM PT/8PM GMT on Tuesday November 7. Due to timezones, that means the Australian time will be 1AM AEDT on Wednesday November 8.
How to watch AC Milan vs PSG in the US Paramount Plus is the home of all things Champions League in the US. While it's a little smaller than other streaming services, it's an ideal outlet for sports fans to check out. It's worth checking out what's new on Paramount Plus while you're at it. Paramount Plus costs $6 a month for the Essential plan or $12 a month for the Premium plan. If you're solely interested in watching AC Milan vs PSG, you can do so for free via a Paramount Plus free trial which gives you free and full access to the service for seven days.
How to watch AC Milan vs PSG in the UK TNT Sports is the home of the Champions League in the UK. Formerly known as BT Sports, the UK streaming service is available through Discovery+ Premium monthly pass for £29.99 a month. You can also sign up via Amazon Prime if you find this method more convenient. Currently, there's no Discovery+ Premium free trial but you can sign up for the service on a 30-day rolling contract basis so you don't have to commit to a long period of time.
Entertainment Newcastle takes on Dortmund today with Newcastle coming off the back of a great 1-0 victory over Arsenal in the Premier League last weekend. The downside for the England side? When they met Dortmund in October, they lost 1-0 so there's a certain amount of vengeance here. Whoever you're backing, the two closely matched sides are sure to be appealing. We've got all you need to know about how to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle online. Whether you're based in the US, UK, Canada, or Australia, we're here to help.
What time is Dortmund vs Newcastle? Dortmund vs Newcastle kicks off at Dortmund's stadium -- Signal Iduna Park -- on Tuesday November 7. Kick off time is 12.45PM ET/9.45AM PT/5.45PM GMT with the game kicking off at 4.45AM AEDT November 8 in Australia.
How to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle in the US In the US, Paramount Plus hosts all the Champions League games in the US for this season. It's a smaller streaming service than some of the others, but it has a growing selection of sports events so it's great for fans of soccer and more. Alongside that, it's a good idea to keep on top of what's new on Paramount Plus with many movies and TV shows added regularly. Even better, if you solely want to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle, you can do so for free thanks to a Paramount Plus free trial. It lasts for seven days and gives you full access to the streaming service so you can see what it offers that might appeal to you, alongside the Champions League.
How to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle in the UK In the UK, TNT Sports is where to go to see the Champions League. It was formerly called BT Sports so if you previously had access to that service, you'll have access to TNT Sports. Otherwise, it's available through Discovery+ Premium. The service costs £29.99 per month with it also available through Amazon Prime if you prefer to sign up that way. There's no Discovery+ Premium free trial available but you can sign up on a 30-day rolling contract so you're not tied in.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
