Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Sponsored Human-Centered Innovation: Powered by AI Suzanne Kopcha (Siemens) and Elizabeth Bramson-Boudreau (MIT Technology Review) Presented by Siemens With human-centered innovation people’s needs come first. It translates into enabling more sustainable, accessible, easy to use products while keeping in mind human needs throughout the process of creating these products. Digitalization is key to achieving human-centered innovation and applying AI to optimize everything from the design, materials, connectivity to the manufacturing process and closing the loop from the experience of the user to the designer's desktop.
About the speakers Suzanne Kopcha, Vice President, Consumer Products & Retail, Siemens Suzanne Kopcha is the Vice President of Global Strategy for Consumer Products & Retail. Suzanne has 31+ years of experience in global strategy, business development, and leading digital transformation and M&A initiatives. Suzanne spent 25+ years with Procter & Gamble and secured 2 US Patents.
Suzanne’s passion is the development of next-generation leaders; especially those that start from a point of disadvantage. Suzanne deeply believes that diversity of thought and perspective is critical to the advancement of innovation and high-performing organizations.
Suzanne holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Management Information Systems and Marketing from LeMoyne College and an MBA from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.
Suzanne resides in Cincinnati, Ohio with her husband and 2 children.
Elizabeth Bramson-Boudreau, CEO and Publisher, MIT Technology Review Elizabeth Bramson-Boudreau is the CEO and publisher of MIT Technology Review, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s independent media company.
Since Elizabeth took the helm of MIT Technology Review in mid-2017, the business has undergone a massive transformation from its previous position as a respected but niche print magazine to a widely read, multi-platform media brand with a global audience and a sustainable business. Under her leadership, MIT Technology Review has been lauded for its editorial authority, its best-in-class events, and its novel use of independent, original research to support both advertisers and readers.
Elizabeth has a 20-year background in building and running teams at world-leading media companies. She maintains a keen focus on new ways to commercialize media content to appeal to discerning, demanding consumers as well as B2B audiences.
Prior to joining MIT Technology Review, Elizabeth held a senior executive role at The Economist Group, where her leadership stretched across business lines and included mergers and acquisitions; editorial and product creation and modernization; sales; marketing; and events. Earlier in her career, she worked as a consultant advising technology firms on market entry and international expansion.
Elizabeth holds an executive MBA from the London Business School, an MSc from the London School of Economics, and a bachelor’s degree from Swarthmore College.
Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 With just a few minutes of sample video and $1,000, brands never have to stop selling their products.
By Zeyi Yang archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Rogue superintelligence and merging with machines: Inside the mind of OpenAI’s chief scientist An exclusive conversation with Ilya Sutskever on his fears for the future of AI and why they’ve made him change the focus of his life’s work.
By Will Douglas Heaven archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
