Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Web Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more By Jennifer Allen Close Digital Trends Amazon knows how to offer some of the best Black Friday deals with the company always throwing itself into any sales season. As we’ve all probably figured out by now, Amazon sells pretty much everything you could ever need or want. That means the sale is huge to say the least. We’ve spent some time picking out some of our favorite Amazon Black Friday deals. That means pinning things down to awesome Black Friday TV deals, laptop deals, Apple products, phones, headphones, small appliances, and a whole bunch of other stuff. Strap in — you’re about to be taken on a whirlwind tour of every way that Amazon can save you money this Black Friday. You’re going to love what’s out there.
Best Amazon Black Friday TV deals Best Amazon Black Friday Apple deals Best Amazon Black Friday tablet deals Best Amazon Black Friday phone deals Best Amazon Black Friday laptop deals Best Amazon Black Friday soundbar deals Best Amazon Black Friday headphone deals Best Amazon Black Friday smart home deals Best Amazon Black Friday small appliance deals Other Amazon Black Friday deals worth talking about Why are Amazon’s Black Friday deals already live? Do you need a membership to shop Amazon’s Black Friday deals? Should you shop Amazon Black Friday deals or wait for Cyber Monday? Best Amazon Black Friday TV deals LG As always, there are some amazing Black Friday TV deals with this being the prime time to upgrade your living room TV or add one to a different room for less. Amazon sells a wide range of the best TV brands meaning you can easily buy a new TV from Vizio, LG, Samsung, and other companies all without leaving the site, including the site’s own Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals.
 That includes scoring a discount on some of the best TVs around so it’s worth giving serious thought to your budget and buying accordingly while prices are lower.
Check out these other TV deals. We’ve organized the by size, brand and retailer: Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Size: 32-inch TV Black Friday deals , 55-inch TV Black Friday deals , 65-inch TV Black Friday deals , 70-inch Black Friday TV deals , 75-inch TV Black Friday deals.
 Brand: Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals , Sony TV Black Friday deals , Samsung TV Black Friday deals.
 Retailer: Amazon Black Friday TV deals , Best Buy Black Friday TV deals , Walmart Black Friday TV deals.
Vizio 40-inch D-Series HD TV — TCL 55-inch S4 4K Fire TV — TCL 55-inch Q7 QLED TV — Samsung 65-inch Q70C QLED TV — Amazon Fire 75-inch Omni QLED TV — LG B2 55-inch OLED TV — Samsung 65-inch Neo QLED QN85C TV — LG B3 77-inch OLED TV — Samsung 65-inch S95C OLED TV — Best Amazon Black Friday Apple deals Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Amazon often provides some of the best Apple deals so it’s a good place to check out for Black Friday Apple Watch deals , Black Friday smartwatch deals in general, iPad Black Friday deals and Black Friday AirPods deals.
 There are discounts on some of the best MacBooks including the latest M3 equipped models, along with the best tablets like the iPad Air. Even the latest Apple Watches are on sale right now. Apple devices are always premium in nature so there’s even room for discounts on some of the best wireless earbuds with the AirPods Pro 2.
 Apple products aren’t cheap so being able to save via Amazon is always welcomed.
Apple AirPods 2 — Apple AirPods Pro 2 — Apple iPad (9th generation) — Apple Watch Series 9 — Apple iPad (10th generation) — Apple iPad Air (5th generation) — Apple Watch Ultra 2 — Apple MacBook Air M1 — Apple MacBook Air M2 15.3-inch — Apple MacBook Pro M3 14.2-inch — Best Amazon Black Friday tablet deals Apple The best Black Friday tablet deals are fairly varied with Amazon stocking offerings from Apple, Samsung, and its own Amazon Fire tablet Black Friday deals.
 The best tablets are a little more affordable while some Amazon tablets are so cheap, you might as well give them a whirl. As with any purchase like this, think about what you need from your tablet and what you’re able to afford. In particular, you can’t upgrade the storage of iPads at a later date so it’s good to aim high if you can.
Amazon Fire 7 — Amazon Fire 7 Kids Tablet — Amazon Fire Max 11 — Samsung Galaxy Tab A8 — Samsung Galaxy Tab S6 Lite — Apple iPad (9th generation) — Apple iPad (10th generation) — Best Amazon Black Friday phone deals Tushar Mehta / Digital Trends Amazon has some excellent Black Friday phone deals particularly if you’re looking for some of the best Android phones you can buy. At any other time, buying one of the best phones is a useful but expensive investment. Amazon sells many different brands so you can easily find cheap budget models alongside the premium releases from Samsung or Google.
Moto G Play 2023 — Google Pixel 7a — Samsung Galaxy S23 FE — Google Pixel 8 — Google Pixel Pro 8 — Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 — Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra — Best Amazon Black Friday laptop deals Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Acer The best Amazon Black Friday laptop deals might not immediately stand out if you’ve been checking out manufacturers directly, but there are some sweet bargains around. Thanks to Amazon being a general retailer, you can find all the best laptop brands in one place giving you plenty of options. Count on models like HP, Acer, and Lenovo, among many others. Whether you’re looking for a creative powerhouse or something inexpensive to take to class, Amazon has you covered.
Amazon sells pretty much every variety and brand of laptop. If you want to narrow the search more, check out our roundup of brand offers: Black Friday MacBook deals , Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals , Black Friday HP laptop deals.
 For something lighter on power, look at Black Friday Chromebook deals.
 For something beefier, try Black Friday gaming laptop deals.
Auusda 14-inch laptop — Acer Aspire 3 — Acer Aspire 5 — Asus Chromebook Plus CX34 — Samsung Galaxy 2-in-1 Chromebook — Asus VivoBook 16-inch — Acer Nitro 5 gaming laptop — MSI Thin GF63 gaming laptop — MSI Katana 17-inch gaming laptop — Best Amazon Black Friday soundbar deals Simon Cohen / Digital Trends TVs are thinner than ever and that often means that they lack powerful speakers. That’s where the latest Black Friday soundbar deals make all the difference. Buying one of the best soundbars instantly improves the sound quality of whatever you’re watching without you needing to find room for a potentially bulky sound setup. Amazon sells many different soundbars including some of the best Dolby Atmos soundbars so it’s worth checking what’s out there.
Vizio 2.0 Soundbar — Amazon Fire TV Soundbar — Samsung HW-C450 2.1 channel soundbar — Hisense 3.1.2 channel soundbar with Dolby Atmos — Samsung HW-Q60C 3.1 channel soundbar — Sony HT-A7000 Dolby Atmos soundbar — Best Amazon Black Friday headphone deals Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Black Friday headphone deals include some big name brands like Sony, Bose, and Apple so there are some great options thanks to Amazon’s wide breadth of products. If you’ve been waiting to buy some of the best headphones , think about if you need features like ANC, long battery life, or simply a cool looking pair of cans.
JBL Tune 510BT — JBL Tune 760NC — Sennheiser HD 450BT — Beats Studio Pro — Sony WH-1000XM4 — Bose Headphones 700 — Sony WH-1000XM5 — Apple AirPods Max — Best Amazon Black Friday smart home deals Nick Mokey / Digital Trends The best smart home devices truly revolutionize your home. They mean you can control devices from apps or with the power of your voice, check on how everything in your home is performing, or simply make it easy to play music while you’re cooking without needing to touch a thing. There are a ton of great Amazon Echo Black Friday deals , so you won’t run out of options here, whatever your intentions. Some of your options are Kasa Smart Plug — Amazon Echo Pop — Amazon Echo Dot (5th generation) — Amazon Echo Show 5 (3rd generation) — Eufy C210 Smart Lock — Google Nest Thermostat — Philips Hue Play White & Color Smart Light 2 Pack — Best Amazon Black Friday small appliance deals Whether you’re looking for the best smart kitchen appliances or something more regular, Amazon is likely to have it. It sells all the major brands like Instant Pot, Ninja, and many others like Keurig Black Friday deals.
 If you’re kitting out a kitchen with a new microwave or an air fryer, Amazon Black Friday deals are worth consulting.
Instant Pot Duo Plus — Ninja 4-quart Air Fryer — Ninja Mega Kitchen System — Faberware Countertop 1000 Watts Microwave — Ninja Foodi 8-quart 6-in-1 DualZone 2-Basket Air Fryer — Other Amazon Black Friday deals worth talking about iRobot Amazon truly does sell everything you can think of. We’ve highlighted many of the most important categories but there’s still room for some other choices too. That means if you’re looking for a robot vacuum, security camera, or something else, you’re in luck. All of these devices will enrich your home and at a great price thanks to Black Friday deals.
Blink Mini — Amazon Fire TV Stick HD — Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Max — Eufy RoboVac 11S Max — iRobot Roomba 694 Robot Vacuum — iRobot Roomba Combo i5 Robot Vacuum & Mop — Eufy Security eufyCam S330 4-Cam Kit — Why are Amazon’s Black Friday deals already live? Pretty much all Black Friday deals have started early this year so it makes sense to see Amazon follow suit. All month, it’s hosted early Black Friday sales with the deals growing by the day. That gives people an opportunity to buy early and beat the rush rather than have to keep an eye on things when they’re busy spending time with family or friends.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Walmart Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Do you need a membership to shop Amazon’s Black Friday deals? No, unlike Amazon Prime Day, Amazon’s Black Friday deals are open to everyone. There’s no need to be signed up for Amazon Prime or any other membership scheme. You can simply sign up for a standard Amazon account and buy whatever it is you need.
Should you shop Amazon Black Friday deals or wait for Cyber Monday? It seems pretty likely that the Amazon Black Friday deals we see available now staying the same right up until the big day. While there’s a chance that Cyber Monday could lead to better offers, it’s unlikely. Instead, previously expired stock may return giving you a second chance to grab a super cheap bargain. Ultimately, in the unlikely case that something does end up cheaper on Cyber Monday, you can always return your previously purchased item providing it’s unopened and unused. By shopping now, you also beat the rush so you don’t have to worry about only having a very short time period to buy something.
Editors' Recommendations Walmart Black Friday deals: The best offers you can shop now Black Friday Samsung deals: TVs, tablets, smartphones, and more Over 100 more Best Buy Black Friday deals just went live Best Buy just started its Black Friday sale — in October Best October Prime Day deals: Early offers you can shop today Audio / Video Computing Deals Gaming Mobile Smart Home Amazon Web With the return of Prime Day deals through Prime Big Deal Days 2023, not only will you be able to enjoy massive discounts from Amazon, but also from rival retailers like Walmart, HP, and Best Buy who want to take advantage of the increased online activity. Amazon's sale will happen on Oct. 11 to Oct. 12, but if you're already itching for some shopping, the good news is that there are already some early Prime Day deals that are available right now. Here are our favorites, and if something catches your eye, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase right away because we're not sure when these prices will return to normal.
Ring Video Doorbell (2nd Gen) -- $55, was $100 The second-generation Ring Video Doorbell is the smart home device that you need if you want to protect your family for an affordable price. It's equipped with a 1080pHD camera, so you can look through it using your mobile device or computer using the Ring app to check who's outside your front door, and you can even talk to them with the video doorbell's two-way audio. You can connect the Ring Video Doorbell to existing doorbell wiring, or you can have it powered by its built-in rechargeable battery.
Web Amazon often has some great deals going on but snacks? That's not such a common thing. Right now though, Amazon is the place for you to stock up on snacks instead of heading to Walmart like usual. That's because if you spend $60 on snacks at Amazon, you get $15 Amazon credit back and available to spend on anything else on the site. That's a pretty hefty discount of 25% off the food you're buying. The idea is you're stocking up on snacks for the big game but really, it's entirely up to you how you consume the delicious treats.
What snacks to shop for at Amazon Amazon has an extensive supply of different snacks out there. It's broken up the category as different parts of the sports-watching process. That means first-round draft picks, pre-game essentials, halftime snacks and drinks, along with post-game favorites, and for at-home streamers. Ultimately, these are simply cute categories for great snacks. Pair them up with the big game or simply enjoy all your snacks while watching the best online streaming services -- it's your choice.
Web Labor Day is fast approaching, but retailers have already started rolling out their offers for the holiday. There are discounts available for practically everything, including rechargeable batteries, robot vacuums, wireless earbuds, and gaming laptops. If you're not sure what to buy, we've rounded up some of the best Labor Day deals that you can shop his weekend.
Amazon Basics 16-Pack Rechargeable AA NiMH Batteries 2000 mAh -- $18, was $25 Rechargeable batteries can save you a ton of money in the long run, but they often tend to cost a lot upfront. Luckily, Amazon Basics has its own batteries that are pretty cheap, and for less than $20, you can grab a 16-pack of rechargeable NiMH batteries with a 2000mAh capacity.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
