Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Web Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Black Friday Samsung deals: TVs, tablets, smartphones, and more By Noah McGraw Close Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends Black Friday is a great time to splurge on expensive purchases you’ve been holding out on. TVs, appliances and phones are some of the most popular purchases during the shopping event. Samsung is a big player in all of these areas, and Samsung products are not known for being cheap. Thankfully some retailers have already started early Black Friday deals , and there are some great discounts available on Samsung products. We’ve collected the best Samsung deals we can find on TVs, tablets, phones, monitors, soundbars and appliances.
Samsung TV Black Friday deals Samsung tablet Black Friday deals Samsung phone Black Friday deals Samsung monitor Black Friday deals Samsung soundbar Black Friday deals Samsung appliance Black Friday deals Samsung TV Black Friday deals Samsung Samsung TVs are some of the best on the market. Samsung and LG are right at the top of the list when it comes to luxury home theater systems. Unfortunately Samsung TVs usually come with a premium price tag. We’ve pulled out some of the best Samsung TV Black Friday deals on OLED TVs and QLED TVs. There is even a Samsung The Frame TV Black Friday deals.
50-inch Samsung TU690T LED TV — 55-inch Samsung Q80B QLED TV — 85-inch Samsung CU7000 — 70-inch Q60C QLED TV — 65-inch Samsung Q80C QLED TV — 65-inch S90C OLED TV — 85-inch Samsung The Frame — Samsung tablet Black Friday deals Samsung Samsung competes with Apple in the tablet market, but there are some Samsung tablet options that are much cheaper than the iPad. The A line is generally cheaper, and the S line can get a bit more expensive. In general, the lower the number the cheaper the tablet. Tons of Samsung tablet Black Friday deals , from the cheap to the expensive, are available at retailers like Best Buy, Walmart, and Amazon.
Samsung Galaxy Tab A7 Lite (restored) — Samsung Galaxy Tab A7 Lite — Samsung Galaxy Tab A8 — Samsung Galaxy Tab S6 Lite — Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 — Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Samsung phone Black Friday deals Bryan M. Wolfe / Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy S line has been the primary iPhone competitor for years. The newest entry, the Samsung Galaxy S23, was one of our favorite phones of the year. Tons of older Samsung phones have Black Friday deals, and the main Samsung S23 even has some offers from Samsung, including discounts and trade ins. Be sure to check out our breakdown of the best foldable phone Black Friday deals too if the Z Fold and Flip catch your eye.
Samsung Galaxy A14 — Samsung Galaxy A23 — Samsung Galaxy A54 — Samsung Galaxy S23+ — Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra — Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra — Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 — Samsung monitor Black Friday deals Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Samsung makes some of the best monitors out there. It has everything from general office monitors to ultra HD gaming monitors. Tons of models have discounts right now. Even some of the insane ones, like the massive, curved Samsung Odyssey series, are on sale. Here are the best Samsung monitor Black Friday deals.
22-inch Samsung T350 FHD — 27-inch Samsung T350 FHD — 32-inch Odyssey G51C QHD — 34-inch ViewFinity S50GC Ultra-WQGH — 32-inch Samsung M80C 4K UHD — 49-inch Samsung Odyssey CRG9 — 55-inch Samsung Odyssey Ark — Samsung soundbar Black Friday deals Samsung Samsung soundbars are just as popular as Samsung TVs. There are a lot of options available, from a single bar speaker to full home theater setups that include surround sound speakers and subwoofers. Samsung TVs have some unique features that can only work if you have a Samsung soundbar, like the Q-Symphony feature which syncs up your TV’s built in speakers with your soundbar.
Samsung HW-S50B 3.0 — Samsung HW-S60B 5.0 — Samsung HW-B650/ZA 3.1 — Samsung Q-Series 3.1 — Samsung Q-Series 5.1.2 — Samsung HW-S800B 3.2.1 — Samsung appliance Black Friday deals Samsung People sometimes forget that Samsung makes ovens, refrigerators and other appliances. These tend to get outshone by the shinier TVs, tablets and smartphones. Samsung’s refrigerators are on the more luxury side of appliances. For instance, the Bespoke series, which includes models with French doors, models with touch screens on the doors, and more fancy features.
Samsung Jet 75 cordless vacuum — Samsung Bespoke Jet cordless vacuum — Samsung 7.5-cubic-foot gas dryer — Samsung Bespoke 5.3-cubic-foot front load washer — Samsung 26.7-cubic-foot side-by-side refrigerator — Samsung 23-cubic-foot 4-door refrigerator — Samsung Bespoke 4-door Flex refrigerator — Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Walmart Black Friday deals: The best offers you can shop now Over 100 more Best Buy Black Friday deals just went live Best Buy just started its Black Friday sale — in October Best October Prime Day deals: Early offers you can shop today Audio / Video Computing Deals Mobile Samsung Web With the return of Prime Day deals through Prime Big Deal Days 2023, not only will you be able to enjoy massive discounts from Amazon, but also from rival retailers like Walmart, HP, and Best Buy who want to take advantage of the increased online activity. Amazon's sale will happen on Oct. 11 to Oct. 12, but if you're already itching for some shopping, the good news is that there are already some early Prime Day deals that are available right now. Here are our favorites, and if something catches your eye, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase right away because we're not sure when these prices will return to normal.
Ring Video Doorbell (2nd Gen) -- $55, was $100 The second-generation Ring Video Doorbell is the smart home device that you need if you want to protect your family for an affordable price. It's equipped with a 1080pHD camera, so you can look through it using your mobile device or computer using the Ring app to check who's outside your front door, and you can even talk to them with the video doorbell's two-way audio. You can connect the Ring Video Doorbell to existing doorbell wiring, or you can have it powered by its built-in rechargeable battery.
Web Labor Day is fast approaching, but retailers have already started rolling out their offers for the holiday. There are discounts available for practically everything, including rechargeable batteries, robot vacuums, wireless earbuds, and gaming laptops. If you're not sure what to buy, we've rounded up some of the best Labor Day deals that you can shop his weekend.
Amazon Basics 16-Pack Rechargeable AA NiMH Batteries 2000 mAh -- $18, was $25 Rechargeable batteries can save you a ton of money in the long run, but they often tend to cost a lot upfront. Luckily, Amazon Basics has its own batteries that are pretty cheap, and for less than $20, you can grab a 16-pack of rechargeable NiMH batteries with a 2000mAh capacity.
Deals Best Buy has gone all-out with its 4th of July sale, as you'd expect. That means there are some fantastic discounts on seemingly everything you can think of. Whether you're looking to buy a cheap washer/dryer bundle, a new TV, something Apple-related or simply a pair of headphones, there's a great price here. With so much available, we strongly recommend clicking the sale button below to see what's out there. If you need a little guidance though, keep reading while we take you through a few highlights.
What to shop in the Best Buy 4th of July sale There are a lot of washer/dryer bundle deals as part of the Best Buy 4th of July sale which is why you should click through above to see specifics. However, we have to call out one deal from Samsung. You can buy a Samsung 4.5 cubic feet high-efficiency top load washer along with a 7.2 cubic feet electric dryer, Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
