Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Web Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now By Albert Bassili Close Digital Trends Best Buy is pulling out the big guns this Black Friday to compete with Amazon Black Friday deals , and we’re seeing a lot of great deals across the board, whether you want a laptop, a vacuum cleaner, or a fitness tracker. Of course, there are a lot of deals to go through, so we’ve done our best to collect some of our favorite ones below so that you don’t have to. We’ll also be updating this page as more and better deals come along, so be sure to check back regularly. Also, be sure to check out the Walmart Black Friday sale, as it’s also going all out in the hopes of competing with Amazon.
Top 3 Best Buy Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals on TVs Best Buy Black Friday Deals on Laptops Best Buy Black Friday Deals on Appliances Why are Best Buy’s Black Friday Deals Already Live? Do You Need a Membership to Shop Best Buy’s Black Friday Deals? Should You Shop Best Buy Black Friday Deals or Wait for Cyber Monday? Top 3 Best Buy Black Friday Deals Nest Hub — $60, was $100 Google The Google Nest Hub sits in a strange area where, at the full price, it’s hard to recommend, but on sale, it’s a great companion to have either in the kitchen, bedroom or anywhere you spend a lot of time. For example, the 7-inch screen runs a 1024 x 600 resolution, which isn’t great for sustained watching of shows or films, but if you’re cooking or cleaning, it’s nice to have something on. Similarly, it’s a perfect bedside alarm clock that gives you a ton of information and, while the speakers aren’t great for listening to music, they’re good for notifications and things of that nature, so it’s a great little general-use device.
Fitbit Sense 2 — $200, was $250 Fitbit Fitbit was one of the first companies to release a fitness tracker watch, and ever since Google bought it out, the company has gone all-out. One great example is the Fitbit Sense 2 , a surprisingly powerful smartwatch that is perfect to help you on your fitness journey. It has a full suite of sensors that detect everything from heart rate to stress, so you get a better overall view of your health. That said, it’s important to note that many more advanced features are locked behind a subscription that will run you $10 per month.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
50-inch Insignia F30 Series — $200, was $300 Insignia If you’re unfamiliar with Insignia, Best Buy’s brand focuses on budget-oriented products, like this F30 Series TV. That said, it’s still a great TV, especially since you get 4k resolutions at bargain-bin prices. It also supports HDR10 and is built on the Fire TV system, so it’s great for those already in the Amazon ecosystem. Keep reading for more TV discounts or check out our entire article on Best Buy Black Friday TV deals.
Best Buy Black Friday Deals on TVs 64-inch TCL Q5 Q-Class — $400, was $600 TCL If you want a great budget TV for watching sports, this Q-class supports HLG, an HDR standard broadcasters use, especially in sports. Alongside that, you get support for HDR10+ and a QLED panel, which is an upgrade from the typical LED panel and will make you feel like you’re in the action. The whole thing runs on Google TV, so you can control everything from your phone, and is great if you’re already in the Google ecosystem.
75-inch Samsung TU690T — $560, was $750 Samsung While the TU690T doesn’t have HLG, it is considerably bigger at 75 inches, and since HLG isn’t very widely supported, having a bigger screen might be better. And, if you’re not a sports fan, then you’ll be happy to know that it helps HDR10+ so that you can watch your shows or films with much higher contrast and image fidelity. The TU690T can also do a bit of 4k upscaling, so you can watch your older content without seeing a very grainy 1080p image. However, be aware that the upscaling quality varies by source material.
86-inch LG UR7800 Series — $900, was $1,250 LG Very few things are as cool as a big-screen TV, and this LG UR7800 is one of the biggest at 86 inches, and it’s impressive to see it below $1,000. It has an advanced α5 AI Processor Gen6, which not only helps with overall image quality but also manages the upscaling, although, like the previous TV, the quality varies greatly based on source material. On the other hand, if you don’t plan to watch a lot of older content, more modern content is supported with HDR10 and HLG, as well as the webOS TV smart TV platform, which gives you access to all the streaming apps you could ever want.
Best Buy Black Friday Deals on Laptops Lenovo Ideapad 3i — $280, was $500 Lenovo Budget-friendly laptops that are touch-enabled aren’t very common, but it’s always good to see something like the Lenovo Ideapad 3i go on sale since it nets you a great laptop at a budget price. The 15.6-inch FHD screen is perfect for streaming content and day-to-day use, while the entry-to-mid-range Intel Core i3-1115G4 will handle most productivity tasks without much of an issue. The 8 GB of memory is a bit on the lower side, although to be expected at this price range, and the same goes for the 256GB of storage, but overall, the specs are great. Check out more Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals if you’re specifically looking for a new computer.
HP Victus 15 — $550, was $800 HP While gaming laptops are generally quite expensive, we’ve seen a lot more budget-friendly configurations in the past few years, including the HP Victus 15.
 While the RTX 2050 that the Victus 15 runs isn’t that powerful and really will mostly handle indie, casual, and free-to-play games, it’s still a discrete GPU, which is more than a lot of other laptops in this range have. Luckily, the mid-range AMD Ryzen 5 7535HS processor is versatile and suitable for school and day-to-day use, although we would have liked to see a bit more than the 8GBs of DDR5 RAM.
Apple MacBook Air 15 M2 — $1,049, was $1,299 Luke Larsen / Digital Trends The M2 MacBook Air 15 is a laptop that doesn’t need an introduction, especially given that the MacBook Air 13 is one of the most popular laptops out there, especially regarding battery life. Luckily, this Apple didn’t fall far from the tree, and the MacBook Air 15 is also great, with Apple’s M2 chip, one of their most powerful. It has a larger 15-inch Retina display running at 2880 x 1864 resolution, and the battery life will last you around 16 to 17 hours, which is slightly less than the MacBook Air 13, but not by much.
Best Buy Black Friday Deals on Appliances Shark Pet Cordless Stick Vacuum — $200, was $260 Shark Cordless vacuums can help a lot when it comes to speed and convenience, although their biggest issue can sometimes be that they don’t have a big enough storage. Luckily, this Shark cordless vacuum has a larger dust cup, and as the name might suggest, it is great for pets and pet hair. It also has some great convenience features, such as LED headlights to see debris and dirt easier, the ability to function as a hand vac, and a 40-minute run time, which might not seem like much, but it’s great for a budget cordless vacuum.
Arlo Pro 4 Spotlight Camera Security Bundle — $300, was $600 Best Buy If you’re looking for a great home security bundle, this one that gives you three Arlo Pro 4s is great, especially with such a significant discount. It has a 2k resolution for better viewing, a surprisingly good night vision, and the spotlight helps. The bundle includes the cameras, four batteries, and a charger so that you don’t have to have any downtime with these cameras as you charge them. You can also set stuff like alert zones and various types of notifications.
iRobot Roomba i7+ — $500, was $900.
Cleaning up a house can be tiring, especially if you regularly get a lot of dust and other types of debris. Luckily, there are a lot of great robot vacuum deals you can take advantage of, such as the iRobot Roomba i7+, which can even empty itself and give you 60 days of self-emptying. It’s also rather smart, learning your schedule and the dirtiest spots in the house, so it can always clean with the highest efficiency, although you can always schedule it exactly when and where it cleans, so you always have complete control.
Why are Best Buy’s Black Friday Deals Already Live? Many retailers, including Best Buy, have decided to make the whole month of November essentially function as a Black Friday sale. That means you don’t necessarily have to wait until the actual Black Friday and Cyber Monday to take advantage of early Black Friday deals.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Walmart Black Friday deals and Amazon Black Friday deals.
Do You Need a Membership to Shop Best Buy’s Black Friday Deals? Yes and no. For the most part, there will be a lot of deals throughout the rest of the month that might be considered Black Friday deals that should be available to everybody. That said, you may find some deals only exist for those with a My Best Buy Plus or Total membership or that the membership will offer additional discounts above the discount already listed. Either way, having a membership will certainly help you get the best deals, so you should grab one if you can, especially if you plan to grab a lot of things from Best Buy.
Should You Shop Best Buy Black Friday Deals or Wait for Cyber Monday? With Black Friday and Cyber Monday essentially being the whole month of November, there’s little point in waiting until Cyber Monday, especially since you’ll likely only find leftover stock on Cyber Monday rather than actual deals made specifically for Black Friday. We’re also already seeing a lot of great deals that have decreased products to their lowest ever, and we won’t likely see them get lower for Cyber Monday, if discounted at all.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Black Friday Samsung deals: TVs, tablets, smartphones, and more The 32 best early Walmart Black Friday deals still available The 13 best early Black Friday deals you can shop this weekend Best Buy just started its Black Friday sale — in October Audio / Video Computing Deals Smart Home Web Once upon a time, we heard about Amazon's Prime Day once a year. It isn't quite like that now. So, just in time for some pre-Halloween shopping, we have an October Prime Day as well. Here is everything you need to know about the event, plus a sneak peek at some great deals that are already going on to lead us into the holiday, with more rolling in by the hour.
Best Prime Day Phone Deals Apple iPhone SE (3rd Gen) -- $149, was $379 If you don't mind getting a smartphone that's locked to a Straight Talk prepaid plan, then you can have the third-generation Apple iPhone SE, the latest version of the entry-level iPhone, for a very cheap price. The iPhone SE 2022 may be affordable, but it doesn't sacrifice too much because it's equipped with a 4.7-inch Retina HD display, a 12MP Wide camera at the back, a 7MP FaceTime HD camera at the front, and Apple's A15 Bionic chip that's also used by the iPhone 13 series. The budget iPhone also offers the Touch ID fingerprint recognition system and IP67 water resistance.
Web With the return of Prime Day deals through Prime Big Deal Days 2023, not only will you be able to enjoy massive discounts from Amazon, but also from rival retailers like Walmart, HP, and Best Buy who want to take advantage of the increased online activity. Amazon's sale will happen on Oct. 11 to Oct. 12, but if you're already itching for some shopping, the good news is that there are already some early Prime Day deals that are available right now. Here are our favorites, and if something catches your eye, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase right away because we're not sure when these prices will return to normal.
Ring Video Doorbell (2nd Gen) -- $55, was $100 The second-generation Ring Video Doorbell is the smart home device that you need if you want to protect your family for an affordable price. It's equipped with a 1080pHD camera, so you can look through it using your mobile device or computer using the Ring app to check who's outside your front door, and you can even talk to them with the video doorbell's two-way audio. You can connect the Ring Video Doorbell to existing doorbell wiring, or you can have it powered by its built-in rechargeable battery.
Web Labor Day is fast approaching, but retailers have already started rolling out their offers for the holiday. There are discounts available for practically everything, including rechargeable batteries, robot vacuums, wireless earbuds, and gaming laptops. If you're not sure what to buy, we've rounded up some of the best Labor Day deals that you can shop his weekend.
Amazon Basics 16-Pack Rechargeable AA NiMH Batteries 2000 mAh -- $18, was $25 Rechargeable batteries can save you a ton of money in the long run, but they often tend to cost a lot upfront. Luckily, Amazon Basics has its own batteries that are pretty cheap, and for less than $20, you can grab a 16-pack of rechargeable NiMH batteries with a 2000mAh capacity.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
