Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Web Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Walmart Black Friday deals: The best offers you can shop now By Jennifer Allen Close Digital Trends With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we’ve narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There’s a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale.
 Whatever you’re considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Top 3 Walmart Black Friday deals Best Walmart Black Friday deals on TVs Best Walmart Black Friday deals on laptops Best Walmart Black Friday deals on appliances Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Top 3 Walmart Black Friday deals Keurig K-Express Coffee Maker — $35, was $59 Keurig Keurig makes some of the best coffee makers around with the Keurig K-Express Essentials Coffee Maker ideal for a quick brew in the morning. It has a 36 ounce removable reservoir with room to accommodate a travel mug up to 7-inches tall. A choice of different cup sizes gives you options while everything is done through simple button controls. It also has an auto off function and a maintenance alert any time you need to descale it. It’s simple to use but produces great cups of Joe.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Onn. 65-inch 4K TV — $298, was $348 Onn.
The Onn. 65-inch 4K TV is impressively cheap for the size of it. While it lacks the finer features of bigger name brands, it has the essentials such as Roku Smart TV being built-in for easy access to all your favorite streaming services. Three HDMI ports make it simple to hook up to other devices while there’s voice support via the Roku mobile app. As an addition to a living room on a budget, it’ll cover your needs well even without the extras that other TVs might provide for more.
Sony WH-1000XM5 Headphones — $318, was $400 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Some of the best headphones around, the Sony WH-1000XM5 offer industry leading noise cancellation. Two processors control eight microphones so you get an unprecedented level of noise cancellation. Auto NC optimizer functionality means that noise cancellation is automatically optimized based on where you’re using the cans so they’re good for every situation. Up to 30 hours of battery life along with exceptional sound quality make these must have headphones.
Best Walmart Black Friday deals on TVs Onn. 50-inch 4K TV — $198 Onn Straightforwardly inexpensive, the Onn. 50-inch 4K TV is an ideal TV for someone on a budget or someone who wants to add a display to their child’s bedroom or similar. It has the essentials such as Roku Smart TV built-in so you can easily check out all your favorite streaming apps without hooking up a separate device. If you do need to add anything, you can do so via the three HDMI ports while voice control is there via the Roku mobile app.
Samsung 55-inch The Frame QLED 4K TV — $1,097, was $1,500 Samsung From one of the best TV brands around, the Samsung 55-inch The Frame QLED 4K TV is a particularly stylish QLED TV. Whenever it’s turned off, it switches to Art Mode so it can display your art collection, whether that’s your own creations or classic pieces from the Samsung Art Store. Designed to be wall-mounted, it fits into your aesthetic well while also offering exceptional QLED levels of picture quality, 100% color volume, and anti-reflection qualities so it looks good in any light.
Sony 65-inch Bravia XR A90J OLED TV — $1,398, was $2,198 Riley Young/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Sony makes some of the best TVs around with it embracing OLED technology with great results. The Sony 65-inch Bravia XR A90J OLED TV has great features like Sony’s XR Triluminos Pro for producing billions of accurate colors and impressively natural picture quality. It also offers Sony’s brightest-ever OLED picture while Sony’s Cognitive processor XR is able to produce intense contrast with pure blacks and high peak brightness. Other key features include Dolby Vision, IMAX enhanced, Netflix calibrated mode, and more, while even audio is great thanks to Acoustic Surface Audio+ support.
Best Walmart Black Friday deals on laptops Samsung Chromebook 4 — $129, was $159 Samsung For the cheapest Chromebook rather than one of the best Chromebooks , consider the Samsung Chromebook 4. It has an Intel Celeron N4020 processor along with 4GB of memory and 64GB of eMMC storage. An 11.6-inch HD screen is pretty basic but it makes the Chromebook even more portable with up to 12 hours of battery life proving useful. It’s a good option for taking to class or occasional use if you’re on a tight budget but need a laptop.
HP Chromebook x360 — $199, was $329 HP HP is one of the best laptop brands and that extends to its Chromebooks. This particular model has an Intel Celeron N4020 processor, 4GB of memory and 64GB of eMMC storage. A 14-inch HD touchscreen can be flipped around via its hinge so you can use the device as a tablet as well as laptop, giving you plenty of flexibility as you work on the move. It might not be speedy but it’s fine for taking to class or similar.
HP Stream 14 — $199, was $229 HP The HP Stream 14-inch laptop runs Windows 11 in S mode which is useful if you need Windows 11 support. It has an Intel Celeron N4020 processor along with 4GB of memory and 64GB of eMMC storage so it’s a smart move to use cloud-based services. It might be simple and far from challenging the best laptops , but it’s super cute and perfect for buying for your child this holiday season.
Best Walmart Black Friday deals on appliances Ninja 4QT Air Fryer — $69, was $89 Ninja Ninja makes many of the best air fryers with the Ninja 4QT Air Fryer the perfect starting point. It has a wide temperature range of 105F to 400F so you can cook very efficiently. Its 4-quart ceramic-coated nonstick basket and crisper plate has room for up to two pounds of French fries with the fan able to automatically adjust speeds based on your aims. If you’ve never owned an air fryer before, this is the perfect starting point.
Moosoo Cordless Vacuum 4 — $75, was $150 Walmart Keen to compete with the best cordless vacuums , the Moosoo Cordless Vacuum 4-in-1 Lightweight Stick Vacuum Cleaner has a lot to like. It has a high-efficiency cyclone metal filtration system that can remove up to 99.97% of microscopic dust. Able to work in many different ways, it can handle pet hair as well as regular dust and debris. It has a large 1.3L dust cup along with a great run time of 20-35 minutes. It’s lightweight too so you can easily move it around the house.
Shark Ion Robot Vacuum — $129, was $249 Shark Shark make many of the best robot vacuums with the Shark Ion Robot Vacuum a highlight at this price. It has a Tri-Brush system which combines side brushes, channel brushes, and a multi-surface brush roll to handle all kinds of debris on both carpets and hard floors. It can clean your whole home for up to two hours while it has intelligent cliff sensors to help it spot ledges and stairs it can’t cope with. You can also use the SharkClean app to schedule cleaning sessions or simply start or stop the robot from doing its work.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Black Friday Samsung deals: TVs, tablets, smartphones, and more Over 100 more Best Buy Black Friday deals just went live Best Buy just started its Black Friday sale — in October Best October Prime Day deals: Early offers you can shop today Audio / Video Computing Deals Gaming Mobile Smart Home Black Friday Web With the return of Prime Day deals through Prime Big Deal Days 2023, not only will you be able to enjoy massive discounts from Amazon, but also from rival retailers like Walmart, HP, and Best Buy who want to take advantage of the increased online activity. Amazon's sale will happen on Oct. 11 to Oct. 12, but if you're already itching for some shopping, the good news is that there are already some early Prime Day deals that are available right now. Here are our favorites, and if something catches your eye, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase right away because we're not sure when these prices will return to normal.
Ring Video Doorbell (2nd Gen) -- $55, was $100 The second-generation Ring Video Doorbell is the smart home device that you need if you want to protect your family for an affordable price. It's equipped with a 1080pHD camera, so you can look through it using your mobile device or computer using the Ring app to check who's outside your front door, and you can even talk to them with the video doorbell's two-way audio. You can connect the Ring Video Doorbell to existing doorbell wiring, or you can have it powered by its built-in rechargeable battery.
Web Labor Day is fast approaching, but retailers have already started rolling out their offers for the holiday. There are discounts available for practically everything, including rechargeable batteries, robot vacuums, wireless earbuds, and gaming laptops. If you're not sure what to buy, we've rounded up some of the best Labor Day deals that you can shop his weekend.
Amazon Basics 16-Pack Rechargeable AA NiMH Batteries 2000 mAh -- $18, was $25 Rechargeable batteries can save you a ton of money in the long run, but they often tend to cost a lot upfront. Luckily, Amazon Basics has its own batteries that are pretty cheap, and for less than $20, you can grab a 16-pack of rechargeable NiMH batteries with a 2000mAh capacity.
Computing If you're a YouTube fan like us, you might want to know what the most viewed YouTube videos are, and how to download YouTube videos.
Downloading a video from YouTube doesn’t seem like a big deal at first glance, but it comes with ethical concerns to consider, depending on the original post’s intent. And it's something Google definitely doesn't want you doing — it's a clear violation of YouTube's Terms of Service, but it's even more important to keep the original content creators in mind.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
