Biz & IT Tech Science Policy Cars Gaming & Culture Store Forums Navigate Store Subscribe Videos Features Reviews RSS Feeds Mobile Site About Ars Staff Directory Contact Us Advertise with Ars Reprints Filter by topic Biz & IT Tech Science Policy Cars Gaming & Culture Store Forums Settings Front page layout Site theme light dark Copyright problems — AI-generated movie posters with Disney logos force Microsoft to alter Bing Image Creator Viral social media trend uses pictures of family dogs to create realistic movie posters.
Cristina Criddle, Financial Times - Nov 17, 2023 3:18 pm UTC / reader comments 92 with Microsoft has tweaked its artificial intelligence image generator tool after concerns were raised over a viral social media trend where users created realistic Disney film posters of their dogs, highlighting broader copyright issues in the industry.
Disney’s logo was visible in illustrations made by Microsoft’s Bing Image Creator, which were then posted to TikTok and Instagram. The pictures featured people’s pets in the style of posters made by Disney’s Pixar studio, leading influencers to encourage others to prompt the artificial intelligence tool to generate their own versions.
After concerns were raised, the term “Disney” was blocked from being entered into the image generator, and users were shown a screen which said the prompt—the search terms used to guide the AI—was against its policies. One person familiar with Disney’s approach suggested the media giant had reported its concerns about copyright or intellectual property infringement.
The tool has since been adjusted to allow the term Disney, but the text and logo in the AI-generated pictures still resemble those in original images, as illustrated in the poster, above, for the film Brave.
 They feature a jumbled but still recognizably similar version of the genuine logo but, for example, with misspellings or a blurred font, such as the picture above showing a dog.
“Reproduction of the Disney logo is clear trademark infringement. I would imagine that is why the AI might be jumbling the logo,” said Andrew White, partner at IP law firm Mathys & Squire.
He added there was an “unresolved issue” over whether the AI models had been trained on Disney’s content and also if it was reproducing copyrighted material.
Advertisement “In this instance, it is likely more for fun than trying to pass the images off for their own film or animation, but that would be a huge issue. From a PR perspective, it is a fine line for Disney seeming to come down on something for fun that is ultimately raising its profile versus something that is actually anti-competitive,” White added.
In September, Microsoft pledged to assume legal responsibility for any commercial customers using its software in Word, PowerPoint, and coding tools who face complaints of breach of copyright due to material generated by its AI products. Other big tech firms using generative AI, including Adobe and OpenAI, have offered similar protections.
Influencer accounts on social media were instructing followers to input terms such as “a Disney Pixar-inspired movie poster,” which would create images that used the media giant’s logo, among other design characteristics.
Nicola Bennett, who runs an Instagram account for her Italian Greyhound under the handle Pandora the Iggy, said she made images after seeing others do it on the social media platform.
“I wrote in Disney-style cute poster—the images are so cute and similar, I can’t believe it makes them so fast,” she said.
Bennett said she thought it was “a positive thing for the Disney brand, but maybe they should have their own generator.” She also recognized that “now you can do it free... that can take away from people who would make it by hand.” Microsoft would not comment on commercial discussions but said: “There is a current level of variability that may return different results from time to time as we continue to refine our safety systems . . . Additionally, artists, celebrities, and organizations can request to limit the creation of images associated with their names and brands.” Disney declined to comment.
The incident comes as artists, singers, media companies, and publishers have claimed that copyrighted materials have been used to develop AI products without their consent or payment.
Several lawsuits are underway amid questions over what data the models underlying the technology have been trained on. Stock image provider Getty Images is suing Stability AI, alleging the company used its images to train its model.
Additional reporting by Christopher Grimes in Los Angeles © 2023 The Financial Times Ltd.
All rights reserved.
 Not to be redistributed, copied, or modified in any way.
reader comments 92 with Advertisement Channel Ars Technica ← → Related Stories Today on Ars Store Subscribe About Us RSS Feeds View Mobile Site Contact Us Staff Advertise with us Reprints Newsletter Signup Join the Ars Orbital Transmission mailing list to get weekly updates delivered to your inbox.
Sign me up → CNMN Collection WIRED Media Group © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 1/1/20) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 1/1/20) and Ars Technica Addendum (effective 8/21/2018). Ars may earn compensation on sales from links on this site.
Read our affiliate link policy.
Your California Privacy Rights | Do Not Sell My Personal Information The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices
