X Black Friday 2023 Live Blog Can You Trust AI Photography? Best TV for 2023 Thanksgiving Travel Times Snoozing Is Fine Solar EV charging 6 Best TV Gifts Tech Money Home Wellness Home Internet Energy Deals Sleep Price Finder more Wellness Fitness Best Smart Scale for 2023 Smart scales measure more than just your weight. They can provide insight into your body composition and track progress toward your goals. Here are our favorites.
Updated Oct. 26, 2023 8:00 a.m. PT Written by Giselle Castro-Sloboda Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer Expertise Fitness and Wellness Why You Can Trust CNET 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25+ Years of Experience 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 10,000 11,000 12,000 13,000 14,000 15,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
Read how we test products and services.
What to consider Price The right smart scale for you will include the most features you want at the right price point for your budget.
Weight capacity Be sure to check the smart scale's weight capacity to ensure it can handle your weight.
App compatibility If you already use a fitness app, be sure that the smart scale is compatible with it.
Body image If you struggle with body image, consult with your doctor to find the best option for you. Some scales come with the option to hide your weight.
View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details Living a healthy lifestyle and monitoring your overall wellness includes a lot more than just tracking your weight. But when you do get on a scale, it should give you more than just a number. A good scale offers you a host of health metrics like body fat percentage , heart rate and more.
 While analog scales remain the most popular, smart scales are becoming increasingly common. The best smart scales also connect to your phone and sync up with fitness apps like Apple Health and Google Fit. This makes it easier for you to track your overall health data. That's why getting a premium smart scale may be worth the investment if you're trying to meet health and wellness goals and want to see data about progress beyond just weight.
Are early Black Friday sales a good time to buy? Many retailers start "Black Friday" sales as early as Halloween, or even earlier. The quality of deals can vary early on, but as November progresses, many of the deals are as good as the deep discounts you’ll see during Thanksgiving weekend. See the best Black Friday deals we’ve found, and keep up with all the latest deals with our full Black Friday live blog coverage.
One thing's for sure: These scales keep getting smarter. To break down the best smart scales on the market, I first established a control weight, recorded at a recent doctor's appointment, to compare against these scales. Then I tested them in my bathroom daily, weighing myself multiple times on each scale at the same time of day for two weeks. Taking into account each scale's consistency, accuracy and measurements provided, I determined which are worth buying. Before you buy, take a look at our top picks for smart scales below.
":"20psuefpfgy5ov4","type":"heading"}"="" data-keep="" data-id="toc-d8456a66-af72-4aa4-ab63-f1bede9b0fe2-item-1">What is the overall best smart scale? The CardioBase X earns the top spot in our roundup for smart scales. This smart scale provides valuable insight into your body composition which includes muscle mass, body fat percentage and heart rate. The scale is also extremely user-friendly and syncs with most popular apps for seamless connectivity.
":"n7n9vv7wb8j3rk2","type":"heading"}"="" data-keep="" data-id="toc-d8456a66-af72-4aa4-ab63-f1bede9b0fe2-item-2">Best smart scales for 2023 Show less Pros Set up is easy Various customizable options Can be used with or without Wi-Fi Cons Expensive Body composition data could be explained better App could use better design Display Type LED Weight Limit 396 pounds Syncs with other apps Apple Health, Samsung Health, My FitnessPal and Google Fit Best smart scale overall QardioBase X QardioBase X is our top pick because of its customizable functions and ability to be used on different surfaces. Admittedly it's large and heavy (weighing about 7 pounds), but the sleek design makes it an appealing piece of technology, even if it's just a scale. It's compatible with Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, can be recharged with USB-C and it can read units in kilograms, stone and pounds. It has a weight capacity of up to 396 pounds. It's suitable for up to eight users and has several modes to pick from, including one for athletes and one called "out of sight" if you don't want the weight to appear on the scale. It also has modes for pregnant people and people with implanted devices, avoiding potential harm or interference by turning off the electrical currents used by most smart scales to read metrics aside from weight. It's one of the few scales that functions well on any surface -- even a carpet -- which is always a plus.
Usually readings on the Qardio were accurate during the daily weigh-ins. The only time I noticed it was off from time to time was during the first measurement. So keep in mind that you may have to weigh yourself more than once to get the most accurate reading.
The Qardio app connects to the scale and has simple steps to sync up and personalize your experience. On the app you get an extra 12 body composition readings: body mass index, body fat percentage, subcutaneous fat, visceral fat, fat-free body weight, body water percentage, skeletal muscle, muscle mass, protein, bone mass, basal metabolic rate and metabolic age. Make sure your Bluetooth is on so the scale properly connects to the app. As with many other smart scales, you can set up a goal weight for yourself and connect to integrated programs such as Apple Health, MyFitnessPal, Samsung Health and Google Fit. The app tells you if each metric is within a low, standard or high range, but there isn't much explanation beyond that.
The app is not my favorite design, because the measurements could be displayed in a more user-friendly way. The default tab has a line graph depicting your weight over a period of time along with percentage changes in your BMI, body fat and body water. This is useful to know if you have a specific goal in mind, but it's not easily digestible as the first form of data you view on the app. The other view, which is easier to follow, shows in chronological order the history of your weigh-ins, time of day, plus a drop-down display with each piece of data collected during your weigh-ins.
Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Pros Affordable Stylish Easy to use Suitable for various weights and people Cons App could give more information It could have more integrated apps Not ideal for those who want a scale that connects to Wi-Fi Display Type LED Weight Limit 400 pounds Syncs with other apps Apple Health, Google Fit, and Fitbit Most customizable smart scale Wyze Scale X The Wyze Scale X is the most versatile scale on the list because it can weigh adults, babies, pets and even luggage. The face of the scale is made up of a smooth tempered glass and it's conveniently lightweight and thin so it can be stored easily. It has a weight capacity of 400 pounds, so people of various sizes can comfortably use it. You can create up to eight profiles and customize them accordingly. This scale can read up to 13 body composition metrics, including body fat percentage, basal metabolic rate, metabolic age, muscle mass, body mass index and heart rate. This scale is battery-powered, so it's not rechargeable.
The Wyze app can be connected to the scale only via Bluetooth. It's easy to sync up once you follow the steps provided by the app. You can customize your profile based on your gender, age, height and activity level. If you're pregnant or have an implanted device you can turn on the pregnancy or weight-only mode. The Wyze Scale also connects to integrated apps like Apple Health, Fitbit and Google Fit.
The Wyze scale was consistent through every weigh-in. It provides quick readings, but the LED display panel only shares your weight and body fat percentage. In the Wyze app, you can find the rest of the body composition metrics. The initial page shows you your weight, BMI, body fat and muscle mass. To view the rest you have to click on a drop-down button on the home screen. I thought the app could do a better job of explaining the purpose of each measurement, but it does give you a synopsis for each one as you click through. It also provides a rubric with which range you fall in, but it's not clear whether that means you're in a healthy range or not.
The Wyze app can also read your heart rate. Its approach is unconventional since other scales have heart rate built into their software, whereas Wyze measures your heart rate by connecting to the smartphone camera and having you place your finger over the lens to get a reading. You can export your data if you need to share it with your doctor or another health practitioner. Overall, I liked this scale because it is customizable for the whole family, has an easy to read app and is inexpensive for all that it offers.
Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Pros App interface is user-friendly Reads data quickly Inexpensive Unlimited profiles Cons Doesn't look as high-end as other smart scales Not suitable for pregnant people or those with implanted devices Display type LED Weight limit 396 Syncs with other apps Samsung Health, Apple Health, and Google Fit Best smart scale with user-friendly app Renpho Smart Wi-Fi Bluetooth Body Fat Scale-Premium This scale from Renpho is the best option if you want a user-friendly smart scale app. The scale uses both Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, which is helpful since it means you can save your data in Wi-Fi mode and sync it up later via Bluetooth. This sleek, black design doesn't look as fancy as the other high-end scales on the list, but it's the right size to store in your bedroom or bathroom. The weight capacity is capped at 396 pounds, meaning various people can use it. It's battery-powered, so if you want a rechargeable scale, this may not be the best choice for you. This scale provides unlimited user profiles and is suitable for weighing infants and adults alike. It's important to note that, unlike most of the other scales on this list, this one does not have a mode for pregnant people or those with implanted devices.
Connecting to the Renpho app is easy -- all you have to do is find your scale on the Bluetooth device list and follow the directions provided for setting it up. Upon weighing yourself, the only metrics this scale displays is your weight, body fat percentage and BMI. When you open up the app, you'll see up to 13 body composition measurements displayed in a chart. I liked the interface on this app because even though it's simple, the design shows all the information in a clear manner. You can click through each measurement and a colorful rubric tells you where you land compared to standard ranges. You can also view your measurement trends in the form of a line graph across a week, month or year. If you'd like to sync your Renpho scale with third party apps, you can connect it to Apple Health, Google Fit, Fitbit App and Samsung Health. I also found the weigh-ins with the Renpho scale to be repeatedly consistent throughout the two week testing period.
Smart scales can get complicated fast, but Renpho keeps things simple. If you're new to smart scales or want one that isn't complicated to follow, you'll be satisfied with this version.
Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Pros Scale display screen is easy to read The app is easy to use and sync up to the scale Safe for pregnant people and those with implanted devices The whole family can use it Unlimited users Cons Expensive Some extra data like weather and temperature don't seem necessary Display type TFT Weight limit 400 pounds Syncs with other apps Apple Health, Google Fit, FitBit, MyFitnessPal, and Samsung Health Best smart scale display screen Etekcity HR Smart Fitness Scale It may not seem like a big deal, but the way a scale shows a reading on its display screen can make or break your experience. This is especially true if you have vision issues or are tall and would like your scale to have larger fonts for easier reading. Etekcity's HR Smart Fitness Scale has the best display screen because the high-resolution graphics make it easy to read your weight, and it depicts a custom set of key measurements on the screen (so you don't have to go to the app every time).
This scale connects via Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, and is easy to set up when you download the Vesync app . Once you're in the app you can set up unlimited user profiles and customize each one. This smart scale has a 400-pound weight capacity and can also be used in Zero-Current mode, which only reads your weight and BMI. This makes it user-friendly for pregnant people and those with implanted devices like a pacemaker. It also has a Baby Mode, intended to weigh infants and pets.
In the Vesync app, you can customize the display screen to include up to seven body metrics. Besides your weight, this can include your heart rate, muscle mass, bone mass and other options. The scale takes turns displaying each metric instead of overwhelming the screen with all of them at once. When you open up the app after weighing yourself, you can access about 14 body composition measurements. It has a similar layout to the Renpho app, so it's easy to read. As you click through each metric, you'll see an explanation about its importance and where you fall on their rubric scale. You can also connect to an Alexa device if you want a hands-free voice control option.
If you're looking to lose or gain weight, the app also lets you set goals and dial in on your calorie intake and daily activity. That's where connecting to a third-party app could be helpful, so you have the data all in one place. Other third party apps you can sync to this scale include Apple Health, Google Fit, Samsung Health, Fitbit and MyFitnessPal.
Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Pros Scale stays true to basic readings It uses Wi-Fi Small size Cons App interface leaves more to be desired Lacks Bluetooth Lacks customization Not suitable for pregnant people or those with implanted devices Display type LCD Weight limit 400 pounds Syncs with other apps Fitbit, Apple Health, and Google Fit Best smart scale with basic readings Greater Goods Premium Wi-Fi Scale The Greater Goods Premium Wi-Fi scale fits the bill for a smart scale that can provide basic readings. It's made up of a white tempered glass so it looks sleek and blends in with most bathroom settings. The design works well with the blue backlit LCD display screen. This scale can hold up to 400 pounds and uses four sensors to give you accurate results.
Setting up this scale was more challenging than I expected because I had to troubleshoot to make sure it was synced up to my Wi-Fi (this scale doesn't use Bluetooth). Once the scale and Weight Gurus app were synced up it was simple to use, and the results were consistent during the two-week testing period. But there were times when I had issues uploading new data to the app. Eventually this issue fixed itself, but it could be because my router isn't close to the bathroom where I was weighing myself.
What I liked about this scale is that the display screen has a dial that lights up and goes around until it properly calculates your weight. On the same screen it displays your muscle mass, body fat percentage, bone mass, BMI and water weight in smaller font. If you prefer your data to appear separately on the screen and in a bigger font, then I would opt for the Etekcity HR Smart Fitness Scale instead.
The app is the simplest on the list, which is ideal for basic readings. The only metrics you'll find besides your weight are BMI, body fat, muscle mass and water weight percentage. The downside is that you can't click through each metric, nor does it give you an explanation on each one. The most you can do on the app is set a goal to lose, gain or maintain your weight, and view it on a dot graph over a span of a week, month or year. I think some improvement could be made by at least providing an explanation for each metric it does provide. Some people prefer these basic readings, however, since too much information can be overwhelming.
Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Pros Connects to hundreds of third-party apps High-end appearance Uses Wi-Fi and Bluetooth Cons Not ideal for pregnant people or those with implanted devices The app isn't the most user-friendly The carpet feet can be flimsy Lacks body composition readings Display type LED Weight limit 396 Pounds Syncs with other apps Google Fit, Apple Health, Runkeeper, Strava, Samsung Health and MyFitnessPal Smart scale with the most third-party app connections Withings Body Plus The Withings Body Plus scale is a good option if you want the ability to sync up to over 100 third-party apps like Apple Health, Google Fit and MyFitnessPal to your scale. It's a large, sleek mirrored glass scale that has four high-precision sensors to give you the most accurate readings. It can record eight user profiles and hold up to 396 pounds. It uses pounds, kilograms and stones measuring units so it works for various individuals. This may not be the ideal scale for pregnant people or those with implanted devices because it does not provide a specific mode that turns off electrical currents. This scale connects to both Wi-Fi and Bluetooth and is easy to set up. The scale comes with carpet feet, which can be placed at the bottom of the scale on each corner. The carpet feet weren't my favorite accessory because sometimes the scale wobbled on my tiled bathroom floor and I had to reposition it until the surface felt even.
Setting up this scale with the corresponding app, Health Mate, was relatively simple. It was similar to the others where you follow the steps provided in the app and then customize your user profile. I connected to both my Bluetooth and Wi-Fi in the process. You also have the option to customize the readings that appear on the scale's screen display, and set a goal for yourself.
For the most part, the Withings Body Plus scale provided a fast reading, but there were times when it lagged. The LED display screen has triangles blinking on each corner as the scale works to get a measurement. When it gathers the information, the triangles disappear and the calculated weight remains steady. Sometimes this takes longer than anticipated, but I'm not sure if it's the scale's fault or user error. However, the weight measurements over the span of two weeks were consistent overall. Sometimes they were off by a couple of ounces or a pound or two, but nothing overwhelmingly different.
I was impressed by the number of third-party apps you could connect with the Withings Body Plus. Although the app only presents a few, you can go into the respective third party apps and connect the scale through there as well. I stuck with connecting my Apple Health account to the scale and it uploads your step count, any workouts you've done and your heart rate. So if you like to be connected to multiple apps and want a scale that can handle all of it, then you'll appreciate the Withings Body Plus scale.
Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Pros Unlimited profiles Family-friendly Good for body recomposition App interface is user-friendly Cons Expensive App rubric may be inconsistent with results Display type LED Weight limit 400 pounds Syncs with other apps Apple Health, Google Fit, and Fitbit Best smart scale for unlimited users Eufy Smart Scale P2 Pro Many scales have a limited number of users on their platform, but the Eufy Smart Scale P2 Pro is the best that's set up for unlimited profiles. The Renpho, Etekcity and Sportneer smart scales also allow unlimited users, but the Eufy smart scale has a better way of displaying each person's results via its app interface. This scale has a 400-pound weight capacity and can also weigh pets and babies. Additionally, there's a simple mode you can select if you're pregnant or have an implanted device.
It has a sleek design and includes high-precision manganese steel sensors, which are intended to read weight changes by up to 0.1 pounds. It's battery-powered and waterproof, so it's bathroom-friendly. Once you download the Eufylife app, set-up is easy and the scale has both Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connectivity. You can then set up specific profiles for the people who'll use it. One thing I would note is to make sure the scale is set to zero before weighing yourself. There were a few times before a weigh-in when I had to pick up the scale and place it back down until I got the zero reading.
The scale display has big numbers for easy reading and the screen also shows your body fat percentage and heart rate. When you open up the app, you're greeted with a customizable 3D cartoon model of yourself. The app displays your scale readings next to the rotating 360-degree 3D model. As you click through the data, you'll see a detailed list of other measurements including muscle mass, bone mass, lean body mass, skeletal muscle mass and more.
I liked that the app gives you a practical approach to body recomposition -- if that's your goal. Instead of focusing on the number on the scale, you can use the measuring tape provided with the scale to get your measurements and manually input them in the app. This is a helpful way to track changes that the scale may not be able to properly read. If you're looking for a scale that allows you to have unlimited profiles and a user-friendly interface, then you'll like the Eufy Smart Scale P2 Pro.
Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Pros App provides the most detailed data On the smaller side compared to other smart scales Cons Not suitable for pregnant people or those with implanted devices Measuring handle can be finicky Weigh-ins take a while Display type Weight limit Syncs with other apps Display type LED Weight limit 400 pounds Syncs with other apps My Fitness Pal Best smart scale for athletes (Update: Currently Unavailable) Sportneer Smart Scale I found the Sportneer Smart Scale has the most detailed metrics on this list -- ideal for an athlete who wants specific fitness data on their progress. It uses both Wi-Fi and Bluetooth and can save unlimited users weighing up to 396 pounds. This round-ish scale is made of tempered glass and includes four electrodes on the base and another four on the detachable measuring handle -- included in the box -- to give you the most accurate reading. If you are pregnant or have an implanted device, I would not recommend this scale since it doesn't have a safe mode where you can turn off the electrical currents.
Setup was complicated because even though syncing up the scale to the Sportneer app was simple, the majority of the data can only be calculated if you're holding the measuring handle attachment correctly. Without using the handle, you're only getting your weight reading, which defeats the purpose of having a smart scale. This made things complicated because sometimes the handle reading would be unsuccessful and you'd find yourself standing on the scale for over a minute. When the readings did work, it could take over 30 seconds, which may not seem like a long time, but when you're trying to get a quick measurement, it can feel like an eternity. If you're looking for a smart scale that provides information quickly, steer clear of this one.
Once you successfully connect all the data to the app, it's impressive because you can get up to 14 detailed metrics. I like how the app uses a model of a human body to label each area with specific percentages based on the metrics. For example, on the model you'll see how much of your body is made up of inorganic salt, protein, fat and moisture. Beneath that there's a color coded chart that tells you if you're within a low standard, standard or beyond standard range. In addition, the app shows a thorough analysis of your muscle fat, obesity, weight control, muscle balance and segmental fat, respectively. If I didn't know any better, I'd assume that this was the most accurate at-home scale on the market due to all the data it's able to provide.
It's no surprise that this scale was consistent with its data during each of the weigh-ins I was able to successfully record. I think this scale would be most appropriate for an athlete trying to keep track of their progress at home. Other settings where it could work are in a gym, doctor's office or sports team locker room. I can't imagine the average person benefiting from all the readings, no matter how well-explained they are. But if you're someone who enjoys reading and analyzing in-depth data beyond your weight then you'll like the Sportneer Smart Scale.
Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Other smart scales tested FitTrack Dara BMI Smart Scale: I wanted to give this smart scale a chance because it had the most body composition measurements, but it never functioned properly when I weighed myself. The only data it provided was my weight, but it never seemed to capture the rest.
Omron Body Composition Monitor and Scale: I had a hard time setting this scale up. I tried troubleshooting and following the directions it came with, but to no avail.
How we tested the best smart scales Ease of use: How easy it is to sync up the scale and app using Bluetooth or Wi-Fi. Additionally, how easy it is to interpret the weight and other data provided by the scale.
Design: If the scale is aesthetically pleasing and designed to blend into different rooms.
Consistency: We looked at weight across the board for a period of two weeks and made sure it was consistent for multiple weigh-ins at the same time each day.
App measurements: We looked at the app interface and the measurements provided, as well as how detailed and easy it is to access and read.
Factors to consider Price: Consider how much you're willing to spend on a scale. Just because a scale is expensive, doesn't mean it's the best option. There are inexpensive scales that can provide the same measurements.
Features: Determine if you're going to want various measurement modes such as for pregnancy, pets or children.
Accuracy: Smart scales aren't always accurate and the only way to get the most precise measurement is through a DEXA (or DXA) scan. Consult with a medical professional if you're interested in this data.
Electrical currents: If you wear a pacemaker or implanted medical device, make sure the scale offers an option to shut off electrical currents. Currents sent by scale are generally safe, but they can potentially interfere with the device and ruin it.
Weight limit: It's important to consider the weight capacity on a scale since you want to make sure it can handle various weights.
Body image: If you struggle with body image or are recovering from an eating disorder, consider discussing with your doctor if owning a smart scale is the right choice for you. It's also helpful to know that some scales don't show you your weight or have a similar mode setting.
Body image: If you'd like to sync up the scale to shared apps, make sure your app of choice is compatible with the scale.
Smart scale FAQs How does a smart scale work? Smart scales rely on technology called bioelectrical impedance analysis.
 The scales send small electrical impulses through your body -- up your leg, across your hips and down your other leg -- measuring resistance and then using a mathematical formula to give you information about your body fat percentage, water weight, bone density and lean muscle mass, among other things. If you wear an implanted medical device or are pregnant, it's important to check that the scale lets you use it in a weight-only mode or has the option to shut off electrical currents.
Are smart scales accurate? While a smart scale's information can give you some insight into your body composition, it's not the most accurate technology.
Dr. Hector Perez , a bariatric surgeon, suggests if you want a better idea of your body composition, it's always best to consult with a doctor or other healthcare professional. "They may have you do a DEXA scan, measure you with skinfold calipers or use other methods to get a more accurate reading," he says. A DEXA scan is a full-body scan that provides the most accurate data on your body composition. It can read everything from your bone mineral density to your fat and lean tissue.
Is a smart scale worth it? A smart scale can be a useful part of your wellness regimen if you're looking for general insight into your body's changes over time. But take the actual numbers with a grain of salt since they only tell you so much. If you need to track health metrics for specific reasons, consult with a doctor or health care provider about getting accurate numbers. However, we chose the smart scales on this list based on how consistent and user-friendly they are.
Fitness Guides Fitness Equipment Best Elliptical Best Treadmill Best Rowing Machine Best Exercise Bike Best Peloton Alternative Best Adjustable Dumbbells Best Home Exercise Equipment Best Smart Home Gym Workouts Fitness Accessories Best Weightlifting Shoes Best Walking Shoes for Men Best Walking Shoes for Women Best Running Shoes for Men Best Running Shoes for Women Best Compression Socks Best Foam Roller Fitness Tech Best Massage Gun Best Smart Scale Best Mirror Workout Best Fitness Workout Apps Best Fitness Trackers Best Chest Strap Heart Rate Monitors Tonal Review Theragun Review Fitness Nutrition Best Protein Powders Best Protein Shakes Fitness Supplements that Work Best Pre-Workout Supplements Best Creatine Supplements Best Foods for Building Muscle Best Weight Loss Programs Show more Show less More From CNET Deals Reviews Best Products Gift Guide Shopping Extension Videos Software Downloads About About CNET Newsletters Sitemap Careers Policies Cookie Settings Help Center Licensing Privacy Policy Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information instagram youtube tiktok facebook twitter flipboard
