Danna Gurari
2020
https://home.cs.colorado.edu/~DrG/AboutMe

Danna (pronounced similar to "Donna") Gurari; aka, Dr. G Assistant Professor Computer Science Department University of Colorado Boulder Office Location: ECES 134 (1111 Engineering Drive) Email: danna dot gurari, at sign, colorado dot edu (Current/Prospective Students: please read my FAQ before emailing me) Biography Danna Gurari is an Assistant Professor as well as Founding Director of the Image and Video Computing group in the Computer Science Department at University of Colorado Boulder. Her group focuses on creating computing systems that enable and accelerate the analysis of visual information. Her research interests span computer vision, machine learning, human computation, crowdsourcing, human computer interaction, accessibility, and (bio)medical image analysis. Her work has been recognized with the 2020 Best Paper Honorable Mention Award at CSCW, 2020 SIG-USE Innovation Award at ASIS&T, 2017 Best Paper Honorable Mention Award at CHI, Researcher Excellence Award from the Boston University Computer Science Department in 2015, 2014 Best Paper Award for Innovative Idea at MICCAI IMIC, and 2013 Best Paper Award at WACV. Gurari's research has been supported by the National Science Foundation, Silicon Valley Community Foundation's Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, Microsoft, Adobe, and Amazon. She received her Ph.D. from Boston University's Computer Science Department (advised by Dr. Margrit Betke ), then served as a postdoctoral fellow in the Computer Science Department at University of Texas at Austin (supervised by Dr. Kristen Grauman ), and then served as an Assistant Professor in the School of Information at University of Texas at Austin (UT-Austin), where she still holds an affiliation as a Research Fellow. Before that, she held industry positions at two leading technology companies: Boulder Imaging and Raytheon.
Invited Talks December 2022: Sight Tech Global fireside chat on "Did Computer Vision AI Just Get Worse or Better?" u Video of Talk June 2022: CVPR UG2+ Workshop about ``Understanding Quality Issues in Images Taken by Blind People and Their Implications for AI that Describes the Images" Video of Talk May 2022: "AI and Accessibility in the Cloud" at the Microsoft Ability Summit Video of Talk April 2021: Allen Institute for AI NLP Highlights Podcast Recording of Podcast Interview December 2020: Sight Tech Global Conference Video of Talk June 2020: Visual Question Answering and Dialog workshop Video of Talk July 2019: Microsoft Faculty Summit about "The Future of Work" Video of Talk Video of Panel Discussion Slides: "Learning to Describe Images Taken by People Who Are Blind" Accessible Version of Slides: "Learning to Describe Images Taken by People Who Are Blind" July 2019: Workshop on "Crowd, Cloud and the Future of Work" at the Microsoft Faculty Summit Video of Talk Slides: "Learning to Recognize When and Why a Crowd Will Offer Different Answers to a Visual Question" April 2019: Army's Mad Scientists: Ethics & the Future of AI Innovation Panel Video September 2018: Workshop on Shortcomings in Vision and Language (SiVL) Slides: "Visual Questions: Learning to Assist Blind People and Detect When/Why a Crowd Will Disagree on the Answer" September 2017: MICCAI Workshop on Large-scale Annotation of Biomedical data and Expert Label Synthesis (LABELS) Slides: "Mixing Crowds, Computers, and Experts for Scalable Annotation of Biomedical Images"
