Cooling Tower Area
2020
https://www.iter.org/construction/CoolingTowerArea

Jobs 7 Tenders 78 Faqs Visits Contact us ITER Directory Subscribe Donate.
gsc-placeholder-input{outline: none; background: url("http://www.google.com/cse/static/en/google_custom_search_watermark.gif") 0% 50% no-repeat rgb(255, 255, 255);padding: 1px 6px;border: 1px solid #DDD;width: 99%; font-size:13px;height: 30px;margin: 0px 5px;width: 100%!important;} .gsc-search-button{display:none} .gsc-control-cse{background-color:transparent; border-color:transparent} Subscribe options Select your newsletters: ITER Newsline Keep in touch with ITER through our main news feed, sent weekly.
ITER Magazine - French only Learn more about the ITER Project by subscribing to this quarterly online magazine that is geared toward the general public.
ITER Open Doors Day - Notifications Stay informed about the ITER Open Doors sessions and be among the first to subscribe to the next event.
Please enter your email address: @ Your email address will only be used for the purpose of sending you the ITER Organization publication(s) that you have requested.
ITER Organization will not transfer your email address or other personal data to any other party or use it for commercial purposes.
If you change your mind, you can easily unsubscribe by clicking the unsubscribe option at the bottom of an email you've received from ITER Organization.
For more information, see our Privacy policy.
') < 0){ $(this).remove(); } }) $("div.sub").each(function(){ $(this).appendTo("#menu-content"); if ($(this).find('li.active').length > 0){ var activeSubMenu = $(this).index() + 1; $("li.menu-cat[data-id='" + activeSubMenu + "']").addClass('active'); } else if( $(document).find('div#menu h2 a.active').length > 0 ) { } }) var activeIndex = $('li.menu-cat.active').index(); if(activeIndex >= 0){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == activeIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } //hide menu on overlay click $('div.black-overlay').click(function(){ $('li.menu-cat.selected').trigger( "click" ); }); function menuBehaviour() { var isiPhone = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("iphone"); var isiPad = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipad"); var isiPod = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipod"); var isAndroid = /android/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isBlackberry = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("BlackBerry"); var isOpera = /Opera/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isIE = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("IEMobile"); //for Tablet if(isiPhone > -1 || isiPad > -1 || isiPod > -1 || isAndroid || isBlackberry > -1 || isOpera || isIE > 1){ $('li.menu-cat span.glyphicon').click(function(event) { //remove href link event.preventDefault(); currentMenu = $(this).parent().parent().parent(); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); }else{ $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseenter', function() { currentMenu = $(this); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); } } menuBehaviour(); $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseleave', function() { clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); currentMenu = null; }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); }); function closeMenu() { MenuToggle( $('.menu-cat.selected') ); clearTimeout( timeoutBlackOverlay ); $("div.black-overlay").hide(); clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); } function MenuToggle( obj ) { currentMenu = obj; var id = $(obj).data('id'); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).find('div.column-select').css({'opacity':'0'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).removeClass('last'); if (id != $(this).data('id')){ $(this).removeClass('selected'); $(this).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); $("div.sub.selected").addClass('last'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).hide().removeClass('selected'); } }) if($(obj).hasClass('active')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('active'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } if ($(obj).hasClass('selected')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 0}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle().removeClass('selected'); $("div.sub").removeClass('last'); $("div.black-overlay").fadeTo(200, 0); setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").hide(); }, 200 ); $(obj).removeClass('selected'); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); if (!$(obj).hasClass('active')){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').removeAttr('style'); } }); } } else { //check last selected height var lastSize = $('div.sub.last').height(); // if last has height if (lastSize > 0 ){ var currentHeight = $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(lastSize) $("div.submenu-content-" + id).show().animate({height : currentHeight + 30 + 'px'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } //else we toggle the menu else{ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } timeoutBlackOverlay = setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").show().fadeTo(200, 0.6); }, 200 ); $(obj).addClass('selected'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-down').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-up'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('selected'); } } About About An introduction to the project's goals, history, organization, location...
In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History IAEA ITER Newsletter The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Faqs Project Milestones Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine One million components, ten million parts — find out more about the ITER Tokamak and its systems.
What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science Bringing a star to Earth? Explore the science of ITER.
What is fusion? Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Iter goals Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Follow the construction of the world's largest tokamak in southern France.
Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Specialized tooling Tokamak Assembly Metrology Plant assembly Commissioning News & Media News & Media The latest photos, videos and publications from the ITER Organization.
All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events ITER Podcast Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives Top Tenders ITER Directory Donate About About In a few lines In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History History IAEA ITER Newsletter Faqs Project Milestones The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Legal resources Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science What is fusion? Making it work Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Iter goals Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Projects underway Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Tokamak Assembly Plant assembly Specialized tooling Metrology Commissioning News & Media News & Media All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives ITER Podcast Toggle navigation Toggle navigation Francais English Jobs Tenders Faqs Contact us directory Subscribe Donate Intranet Donate...
Construction Construction Archives Cooling Tower Area Equipment installation advances In the heat rejection zone, the ITER Organization is installing equipment supplied by the Indian Domestic Agency. Follow all installation and commissioning news on the assembly pages of the ITER website (https://www.iter.org/construction/assembly). © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 December 2020 Download Cooling tower area ITER's heat rejection system, including 10 cooling towers, seen from the air. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 15 June 2020 Download Towers equipped Ten fans have now been installed at the top of the building, one for each cooling tower. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 28 May 2020 Download 6,000 square metres The concrete batching plant has been removed from the platform (left) and the cooling plant is expanding into the zone. In all, it will cover a 6,000-square-metre area. Photo : ITER Organization/EJF Riche 27 May 2020 Download From river to droplets and mist Large fans at the top of the cooling tower building will induce an upward airstream that accelerates the evaporation process. Photo : ITER Organization/EJF Riche 25 May 2020 Download Next step: large fans At the top of the building each cooling cell is topped by a "fan cylinder." Once installed, the twelve-blade fans will induce an upward draft.
22 January 2020 Download Zigzag shape In order to recapture the water droplets that would be otherwise scattered by the upward draft, close to 4,500 "drift eliminator" packs located at the top of each cell provide a dense, zigzagging labyrinth that forces droplets to change direction, lose velocity and fall back into the cooling tower.
22 January 2020 Download Cylinders, rotors and motors A 3-tonne fan cylinder is being lifted into its final position above the cooling cell. The fan rotor (light grey), connected through a shaft to a 170 kW electrical motor (blue), is ready to be fitted with twelve 5-metre long plastic blades.
22 January 2020 Download Ready to lift Three "fan cylinders" made of fibre-reinforced plastic are ready to be lifted and installed on the roof. Each one measures more than 11 metres in diameter and weighs approximately 3 tonnes.
22 January 2020 Download First blade Rotating at 92 rpm, a large twelve-blade fan on top of each cell induces the upward draft that optimizes the cooling process. Here, inside a newly installed fan cylinder, the fan's rotor has just been equipped with its first blade.
22 January 2020 Download Fill packs Inside each cooling cell, stacked layers of millimetre-thick corrugated plastic sheet (''fill pack'') act like the honeycomb structure of a car radiator. (Look closely at the black ''floor.'') 22 January 2020 Download Last stop It all ends up here, in the 6,000-square-metre heat rejection zone. The squat black building to the left hosts the 10 cooling cells that are tasked with evacuating the heat generated by operation; to the right, a complex network of piping, pumps and heat exchangers connects the installation's cooling loops to the cells and the underground hot and cold basins.
22 January 2020 Download Evacuating 1 GW Cooling water flows through approximately 5 kilometres of piping and 17 heat exchangers inside the heat rejection zone. At full power, the combined load that needs to be evacuated is on the order of one gigawatt, approximately half generated by the burning plasma inside the Tokamak.
22 January 2020 Download 4,540 nozzles A set of 4,540 nozzles sprays the water coming in from the installation's cooling system over the stacked fill-pack layers. If unfolded, the total heat exchange surface provided by the fill pack would be approximately 704,000 square metres, the approximate equivalent of 70 soccer pitches.
22 January 2020 Download 10t of water per second Thirteen large vertical turbine pumps (in blue), each one powered by a 870 kW motor and capable of moving 10 tonnes of water per second, circulate water throughout the heat rejection system.
22 January 2020 Download Cooling tower installation underway Cooling water will flow from the Tokamak machine to the heat rejection zone (pictured) at rates of up to 14 m³/s. Equipment arriving from India is being installed by ITER Organization contractors inside of infrastructure prepared by Europe.
08 January 2020 Download Installation of cooling fans Ten 16 x 16-metre cooling cells will receive water from the hot basin and discharge it—once cooled—to the cold basin. Each cell is filled with hundreds of layers of corrugated plastic fill and equipped with a large fan (installation underway at the top of the building) that pulls air upward.
16 December 2019 Download Ten cooling towers The first two fan cylinders are positioned near the cooling tower facility, ready to be lifted to the top. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 04 December 2019 Download 10-metre-long shafts Thirteen vertical turbine pumps will take cooling water from deep in the hot basins and circulate it either to the cold basin, or through the installation's heat exchangers. The shafts, pictured, connect the rotor (impeller) to the motor.
23 September 2019 Download Preciseness counts Each six-tonne vertical shaft must be perfectly positioned and balanced to withstand the considerable forces that the rotation of the impeller and the flux of water exert. Horizontal deflection at the bearings cannot exceed 0.05 millimetre.
23 September 2019 Download To be repeated 13 times Workers install the vertical turbine pump shafts in each pump housing. The 10-metre-long shafts connect the rotor (or impeller) to a powerful 870 kW electrical motor.
16 September 2019 Download Ready for use One of 13 vertical turbine shafts is moved from storage to the heat rejection zone for installation over the hot basin.
11 September 2019 Download Pumping up ITER Organization contractors are managing equipment installation in the cooling tower zone. The infrastructure of the zone was provided by Europe; the design and fabrication of heat rejection equipment is part of India's procurement contributions to the ITER Project.
04 September 2019 Download Last stop for the heat of the tokamak Above the hot basin, contractors are supervising the installation of large lengths of piping. Over 5 km of piping is necessary to receive cooling water from the machine and plant systems and cycle it through the cooling water system, including 20-metre-tall cooling tower cells.
04 September 2019 Download Basins hidden The deep basins of the thermal rejection system were once visible in this corner of the platform. Now they have been covered over by the cooling towers (far left) and other heat removal infrastructure. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 August 2019 Download Pump station 1 Equipment provided by India has been installed in one of the two pump stations planned on site.
07 August 2019 Download Next to be installed: large updraft fans The cooling tower zone is taking shape. A pump station has been erected (right, near the orange crane) and large cooling fans have arrived on site for installation in the cooling tower building.
06 August 2019 Download Cladding underway The cladding of the cooling water tower is progressing. The lower sides of the structure will remain open to facilitate air flow induced by large fans on the roof. The resulting draft will cool down the water falling through thousands of corrugated plastic sheets inside the tower.
12 April 2019 Download Hot basin During the ceremony participants were given access to the underground hot basin. During the machine's operational phase, water can enter the hot basin at up to 65 °C.
21 December 2018 Download Infrastructure completed On 21 December, the European Domestic Agency hands the completed cooling tower zone over to the ITER Organization for equipment installation. The areas handed over include the cold and hot basins, the water cooling pumping station, the heat exchange zone, and the water treatment facility.
21 December 2018 Download Heat rejection On the northern tip of the worksite the 6,000 m² heat rejection zone is emerging. The most recent structure, in black, will house the 10-cell, 20-metre-tall cooling tower.
12 December 2018 Download Specially designed for ITER The cooling towers are one part of a high-performance heat rejection system that has been designed for ITER. The design and fabrication of the system is part of India's procurement contributions to the ITER Project; Europe has created the concrete basins and infrastructure; the equipment will be installed by the ITER Organization.
12 December 2018 Download One structure, 10 cells Each of the 20-metre-tall cooling tower cells will be filled with hundreds of layers of corrugated plastic fill and equipped with a large fan that pulls air upward. As water falls through the fill, some of it evaporates due to the strong uptake of air, removing heat. The dark-grey support structure for the cooling tower cells is made of pultruded fibre-reinforced polymer beams.
12 December 2018 Download Rushing water The cooling water circulating through the different cooling loops of the ITER installation will be directed toward the heat rejection zone through galleries like this. The maximum total flow rate during operation is 14 m³/s. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 05 October 2018 Download In September, the first structures appear If you look closely, you'll see the first cooling tower structures rising in the fourth and fifth cooling tower cells. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 05 September 2018 Download Cooling towers The dark-grey support structure for the cooling tower cells is made of pultruded fibre-reinforced polymer beams. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 05 September 2018 Download Just the tip From this angle, we see only the structures emerging from ground level. The ten cells of the cooling tower can be operated independently; ITER will start operation with just four. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 05 September 2018 Download Cooling through an evaporative process After filtering down through the cooling towers, the water that has not evaporated will be collected in the cold basin located under the cells. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 05 September 2018 Download Construction as art Graphic shadows just before midday on 23 July. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 23 July 2018 Download Heat rejection zone in July All is ready in the heat rejection zone for the installation of the cooling towers. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 23 July 2018 Download Down below The hot basin has been covered over, but its depths are still visible through this opening. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 April 2018 Download Gates to be installed Each cold basin can be closed off individually for maintenance, thanks to giant stop log gates that will be installed over the openings on the far side. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 April 2018 Download The cooling tower zone The heat rejection infrastructure is concentrated in a 6,000-square-metre area that comprises hot and cold cooling water basins, powerful pumps, heat exchangers, and an induced-draft cooling tower with ten individual cells. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 April 2018 Download The cooling tower area, as the centre of the ITER planet An original view of the cooling tower area, extracted from a series of drone videos taken in April. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 20 April 2018 Download A few hundred metres This photo, taken from the top of the bioshield, shows the distance that cooling water leaving the Tokamak Building will travel to reach the heat rejection zone.
13 March 2018 Download Pump house This small structure frames out the future pump house of the heat rejection system. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 16 January 2018 Download Vast zone The cooling tower area will occupy a zone of approximately 13,000 m³ on the northern corner of the platform. The tower and basin area represents about half of that; the rest is dedicated to housing pumps, heat exchangers, and other equipment. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 16 January 2018 Download New feature A new feature on the cooling tower area: the tall columns of the Heat Exchanger Building. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 16 January 2018 Download In December High columns are going up over the hot basin area. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download A widening area The heat rejection zone is expanding under our eyes. Later, some of the equipment will be located where the concrete plant is today. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Pump house This smaller structure will house the cooling water pump station. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download From the sky The hot basin is now out of view, covered over by a concrete basemat and rows of columns. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Equipment arriving Large stop log gates to close off each of the cooling basin compartments for maintenance, as well as screens to keep debris from reaching the pumps, were delivered by the Indian Domestic Agency at the end of 2017. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Not far from the fusion reactions The heat rejection zone is just a few hundred metres from the Tokamak Complex, under construction in the background. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Pipes: 5 km Five kilometres of piping will be installed in the underground galleries of the cooling tower area. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Several entities are participating The design and fabrication of the heat rejection system is part of India's procurement contributions to the ITER Project. Europe has excavated the site and created the concrete basins and structures; the equipment will be installed by the ITER Organization. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Mapping the route Workers cluster around plans at the end of a long workday. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Equipment arriving In addition to batches of piping that have been shipped regularly since 2015, the first equipment is starting to arrive for the heat rejection system. In November, large stop gates were delivered for each of the cold basin compartments, as well as debris screens.
17 November 2017 Download A thruway for pipes These pipes are leading away from the Tokamak Complex to the heat rejection system on the northern corner of the platform. The nominal diameter of largest piping is 2 metres.
07 November 2017 Download Under the cooling towers The cooling tower cold basin has five compartments. Pictured: concrete pouring underway in the middle compartment in October. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 26 October 2017 Download Pipes on hold These pipes supplied by India will distribute cooling water for the heat rejection and component cooling water systems across the site. They are waiting to be connected to the above-ground piping network. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 26 October 2017 Download Cold basin work underway Looking over the cold basin and its five compartments. The 20-metre-tall cooling tower will be installed over this basin. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 26 October 2017 Download Heat rejection zone On site, the hot and cold basins have been created below platform level and the cold basin area has been turned over to the ITER Organization for installation activities. One of the first activities will be to install metal footings in the cold basin to prepare for the installation of the cooling tower structural members. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 26 October 2017 Download An evaporative process Cooling water from the ITER facility will be pumped to the top of the cooling tower where it will slowly fall through layers of corrugated plastic fill and be subjected to a strong updraft of air. What doesn't evaporate will be collected in the cold basin, pictured. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 26 October 2017 Download Northern portion The heat rejection zone is situated on the northern portion of the platform between the concrete batching plant (far end) and the future ITER Control Building (area currently used for storage, foreground). © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 30 September 2017 Download Underground work Cooling water piping is stored vertically while it awaits installation. In the background work continues on the technical galleries that connect the cooling tower area to the Tokamak Complex.
19 September 2017 Download Hot basin covered This intermediate basin runs between the cold (left) and hot (right) basins. The hot basin is now completely covered over.
19 September 2017 Download So many feet Small columns in the cold basin will support the structural members of the cooling tower cells.
19 September 2017 Download Status late August The hot basin of the heat rejection system is progressively covered over. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 29 August 2017 Download Layout For the moment, all work is taking place at an underground level. However much of the equipment of the heat rejection system will be installed at platform level, including the 20-metre-high cooling tower. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 21 August 2017 Download Update on the cooling tower zone The hot basin is disappearing from view. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 21 August 2017 Download Pipes and elbows These supersize pipes (one metre and more in diameter) for the heat rejection system are designed for a flow rate of two cubic metres per second.
13 July 2017 Download Cooling off Work is ongoing on one of the ''final links'' of the cooling water system: a vast zone (6,000 m²) that accommodates two large basins and a cooling tower installation made of 10 independent cells. Fabrication of the cooling tower elements has begun in India.
13 July 2017 Download A deep box Seen from above, the cooling water zone at the northeast end of the ITER site.
13 July 2017 Download Heat rejection zone framed out From the air we can see where the ten induced-draft cooling tower will be located (in five large bays, top) above the cold basin and, at bottom, the hot basin. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 11 July 2017 Download Buried piping Water will travel out of the cooling water loops of the Tokamak and its systems, through these 1.6-metre-in-diameter pipes, and on to the heat rejection system. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 June 2017 Download Columns in the cooling basins The heat rejection system provides the final heat sink and rejects all heat loads in the ITER machine and plant. Its main clients are the secondary cooling circuits, the cryogenic system and the steady state electrical power network. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 31 May 2017 Download The design of the heat rejection system The heat rejection system of ITER is made up of cooling tower cells, hot and cold basins, vertical turbine pumps, a chemical dosing system, ozonator, strainers, valves and piping. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 31 May 2017 Download Looking south From low in the cooling tower zone we can see the Assembly Hall to the south. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 31 May 2017 Download In the northern zone of the construction platform The cold basin is compartmentalized for maintenance with each compartment collecting water from one of the cooling tower cells. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 31 May 2017 Download View of the basins In May, the cooling water basins are completely framed out. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 15 May 2017 Download Cooling tower cells Above-ground work on the ITER cooling towers. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 April 2017 Download Building up from the basin The deep cooling water basin, on the right, can no longer be seen. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 April 2017 Download It takes two ... or three Pre-welding operations on cooling water piping in April. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 April 2017 Download Water evaporation zone To the right, the concrete bays reserved for 10 water tower cells and cold basin; to the left, the hot basin. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 10 April 2017 Download Cooling tower area progresses In April, the concrete frame of the cooling tower zone is visible from above. Besides the hot and cold basins that we see framed out, there will be quite a bit of equipment installed at platform level (the heat exchangers, for example). Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 10 April 2017 Download 10 independent cooling cells ITER's induced-draft cooling tower, under construction now, is made of 10 independent cells located above the cold basin. Each of the five bays in the photo will contain two cells. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 March 2017 Download Hot basin, seen by drone In the photo, the lower level construction and sloped area is part of the hot basin. Vertical pumps will be installed to draw from the basin and discharge to the top of the cooling tower. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 March 2017 Download Partitions installed In the foreground: technical galleries; in the background: concrete partitioning at the worksite for the cooling towers and basins. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 February 2017 Download Ten large cells In the area at left, ten individual cooling cells (16 m x 16 m each, and 20 m tall) will be installed in the five large bays of the cooling tower. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 February 2017 Download Small jacket, tall wall The yellow jacket at right helps us to judge the scale of the concrete partitions of the hot basin. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 February 2017 Download Heat rejection zone Vertical pumps will draw from the hot basin (lower level) and discharge to the top of the cooling tower. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 January 2017 Download Cooling tower zone Seen by drone, the infrastructure of the heat rejection system on the northern side of the platform. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 12 January 2017 Download Concrete pouring in December Concrete pouring is underway on the site of the cooling towers and basins.
20 December 2016 Download Pouring on the northern corner of the platform Now that the rebar is in place, pouring has started on the site of the cooling basins. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 19 December 2016 Download The two-level cooling tower worksite The cold basin, taking shape at right, will sit under the ten cooling tower cells. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 19 December 2016 Download In charge of dissipating heat Water will be used in ITER to remove heat from the vacuum vessel and its components, and to cool auxiliary systems such as radio frequency heating and magnet power supply. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 02 December 2016 Download Precision work Rebar is set into place for the numerous concrete columns to be poured on the site of the cold basin. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 02 December 2016 Download Ten to do the job The structures of the ten cooling cells will sit on these concrete pedestals in the cold basin. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 02 December 2016 Download From machine to hot basin The hot water basin is a C-shaped structure in the lowest part of the installation. Water will arrive in the hot basin during the plasma pulses, and then be released to the cooling tower and cold basin during dwells. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 02 December 2016 Download Team work The design and fabrication of the heat rejection system is part of India's procurement contributions to the ITER Project. Europe is excavating the site and creating the infrastructure; the equipment will be installed by the ITER Organization.
10 November 2016 Download Letting off operational heat This 6,000 m² area on the northeast side of the construction platform will accommodate two basins with a total volume of 20,000 m³ as well as an induced-draft cooling tower made of 10 independent cells.
10 November 2016 Download Large basins Up to 20,000 m³ of water will be stored in the hot and cold basins of the heat rejection system. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 05 October 2016 Download Starting with the foundations A ten-unit cooling tower unit will be built here, on the northern corner of the platform. Connected to the heat removal system, it is designed to encourage a maximum amount of dissipation through evaporation. Photo: F4E 28 September 2016 Download Three zones in a row On either side of the cooling water tower/basin worksite is the concrete plant (background) and the site of the future Control Room (foreground). © Les Nouveaux Médias/ENGAGE 21 September 2016 Download Cooling zone After removing the heat load from the machine and its components during operation, cooling water will be transferred through a cascade of cooling loops to the heat rejection zone located on the northern edge of the platform, where it will be cooled using an evaporative process. © Les Nouveaux Médias for ENGAGE 21 September 2016 Download On the site of the future cooling towers On the north side of the platform, work has just begun on the site of the future cooling water basin and towers. Photo: ENGAGE 16 February 2016 Download Click for full screen 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 ' + currentmenu.text() + ' Construction Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Cooling Tower Area Cooling Tower Area If ITER were an industrial fusion plant, a significant part of the heat generated by the burning plasmas would be used to produce pressurized steam and (by way of turbines and generators) electricity. Only residual heat would need to be dissipated. In ITER, a high-performance heat rejection system has been designed and is under construction.
Heat rejection The heat rejection system must handle the large, intermittent heat loads from Tokamak pulse operations plus normal facility heat loads, while maintaining stable and predictable cooling tower basin water temperatures to meet the needs of cooling water system clients.
On site, the heat rejection infrastructure including cooling towers (lower left) is progressing. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche, February 2020 Total area: 6,000 m² for the principal zone (cooling towers and basins) Total capacity of cold and hot basins: 20,000 m³ Height of cooling tower: 20 m Number of cooling tower cells: 10 Average temperature in hot basin: ≤50 °C Maximum total flow rate during operation: 14 m³/s Nominal diameter of largest piping: 2 m Total length of piping in cooling tower area: 5 km Infrastructure construction: February 2016-August 2018 Equipment installation: March 2018-March 2020 Zone handed over by the European Domestic Agency to the ITER Organization for installation activities: December 2018 System procurement responsibility: India Indian Domestic Agency design and procurement contractor: Larsen & Toubro Systems commissioning | Starting with the heat rejection system Cooling water plant | Partners work in lockstep to keep ITER cool Heat rejection basins | A massive fill-up Cooling system | From river to droplets and mist Heat removal | Moving 10 tonnes of water per second On site | Strategic and symbolic buildings change hands Heat rejection system | Equipment keeps arriving Evacuate and dissipate Letting off the heat Chemistry matters FOR THE PUBLIC Jobs About ITER FAQs Photos Visits Education Donate/Sponsor FOR THE PRESS All News Welcome Facts and Figures ITER Milestones Press Releases Fusion Glossary FOR SCIENTISTS ITPA Fusion Links Conferences How to Publish ITER Technical Reports ITER International School FOR INDUSTRY Procurement Intellectual Property Foreign Workers in France Business Events INTRANET Intranet Sitemap Terms of use Privacy Policy © 2023, ITER Organization ITER Assembly Live Event - 28 JULY The event will be live-streamed, in three parts (all times listed are French local times): 10:00 a.m. — Tour of the ITER worksite and large components on site 11:00 a.m. — Ceremony, including statements by world leaders 12:30 a.m. (or following the ceremony) — Press conference
