Assembly Building
2020
https://www.iter.org/construction/tkmassemblyhall

Jobs 7 Tenders 78 Faqs Visits Contact us ITER Directory Subscribe Donate.
gsc-placeholder-input{outline: none; background: url("http://www.google.com/cse/static/en/google_custom_search_watermark.gif") 0% 50% no-repeat rgb(255, 255, 255);padding: 1px 6px;border: 1px solid #DDD;width: 99%; font-size:13px;height: 30px;margin: 0px 5px;width: 100%!important;} .gsc-search-button{display:none} .gsc-control-cse{background-color:transparent; border-color:transparent} Subscribe options Select your newsletters: ITER Newsline Keep in touch with ITER through our main news feed, sent weekly.
ITER Magazine - French only Learn more about the ITER Project by subscribing to this quarterly online magazine that is geared toward the general public.
ITER Open Doors Day - Notifications Stay informed about the ITER Open Doors sessions and be among the first to subscribe to the next event.
Please enter your email address: @ Your email address will only be used for the purpose of sending you the ITER Organization publication(s) that you have requested.
ITER Organization will not transfer your email address or other personal data to any other party or use it for commercial purposes.
If you change your mind, you can easily unsubscribe by clicking the unsubscribe option at the bottom of an email you've received from ITER Organization.
For more information, see our Privacy policy.
') < 0){ $(this).remove(); } }) $("div.sub").each(function(){ $(this).appendTo("#menu-content"); if ($(this).find('li.active').length > 0){ var activeSubMenu = $(this).index() + 1; $("li.menu-cat[data-id='" + activeSubMenu + "']").addClass('active'); } else if( $(document).find('div#menu h2 a.active').length > 0 ) { } }) var activeIndex = $('li.menu-cat.active').index(); if(activeIndex >= 0){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == activeIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } //hide menu on overlay click $('div.black-overlay').click(function(){ $('li.menu-cat.selected').trigger( "click" ); }); function menuBehaviour() { var isiPhone = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("iphone"); var isiPad = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipad"); var isiPod = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipod"); var isAndroid = /android/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isBlackberry = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("BlackBerry"); var isOpera = /Opera/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isIE = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("IEMobile"); //for Tablet if(isiPhone > -1 || isiPad > -1 || isiPod > -1 || isAndroid || isBlackberry > -1 || isOpera || isIE > 1){ $('li.menu-cat span.glyphicon').click(function(event) { //remove href link event.preventDefault(); currentMenu = $(this).parent().parent().parent(); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); }else{ $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseenter', function() { currentMenu = $(this); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); } } menuBehaviour(); $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseleave', function() { clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); currentMenu = null; }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); }); function closeMenu() { MenuToggle( $('.menu-cat.selected') ); clearTimeout( timeoutBlackOverlay ); $("div.black-overlay").hide(); clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); } function MenuToggle( obj ) { currentMenu = obj; var id = $(obj).data('id'); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).find('div.column-select').css({'opacity':'0'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).removeClass('last'); if (id != $(this).data('id')){ $(this).removeClass('selected'); $(this).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); $("div.sub.selected").addClass('last'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).hide().removeClass('selected'); } }) if($(obj).hasClass('active')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('active'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } if ($(obj).hasClass('selected')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 0}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle().removeClass('selected'); $("div.sub").removeClass('last'); $("div.black-overlay").fadeTo(200, 0); setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").hide(); }, 200 ); $(obj).removeClass('selected'); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); if (!$(obj).hasClass('active')){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').removeAttr('style'); } }); } } else { //check last selected height var lastSize = $('div.sub.last').height(); // if last has height if (lastSize > 0 ){ var currentHeight = $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(lastSize) $("div.submenu-content-" + id).show().animate({height : currentHeight + 30 + 'px'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } //else we toggle the menu else{ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } timeoutBlackOverlay = setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").show().fadeTo(200, 0.6); }, 200 ); $(obj).addClass('selected'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-down').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-up'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('selected'); } } About About An introduction to the project's goals, history, organization, location...
In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History IAEA ITER Newsletter The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Faqs Project Milestones Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine One million components, ten million parts — find out more about the ITER Tokamak and its systems.
What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science Bringing a star to Earth? Explore the science of ITER.
What is fusion? Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Iter goals Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Follow the construction of the world's largest tokamak in southern France.
Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Specialized tooling Tokamak Assembly Metrology Plant assembly Commissioning News & Media News & Media The latest photos, videos and publications from the ITER Organization.
All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events ITER Podcast Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives Top Tenders ITER Directory Donate About About In a few lines In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History History IAEA ITER Newsletter Faqs Project Milestones The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Legal resources Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science What is fusion? Making it work Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Iter goals Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Projects underway Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Tokamak Assembly Plant assembly Specialized tooling Metrology Commissioning News & Media News & Media All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives ITER Podcast Toggle navigation Toggle navigation Francais English Jobs Tenders Faqs Contact us directory Subscribe Donate Intranet Donate...
Construction Construction Archives Assembly Building Assembly underway Now that ITER assembly has started, a clean corridor is the obligatory passageway into the ITER Assembly Hall leading to a check-in desk and worker changing rooms. Follow all assembly activity on the ITER website at ASSEMBLY (https://www.iter.org/construction/assembly).
10 September 2020 Download Lower cylinder A new machine component is making a short pause in the Assembly Hall before it is inserted into the machine well: the cryostat lower cylinder. Ten metres tall, 30 metres in diameter, and 375 tonnes.
22 August 2020 Download Next piece coming From the rafters, a view of the machine assembly theatre. The first machine component, the cryostat base, has already been installed. The cryostat lower cylinder will be transferred into the Tokamak pit in early September.
20 August 2020 Download Latest arrival The first vacuum vessel sector from Korea has been delivered to a laydown area in the Assembly Hall. After a final helium leak test and site acceptance test, the component will be ready for handover to the ITER Organization assembly contractor responsible for the vessel (TAC2) for a number of initial activities such as the installation of diagnostics, instrumentation and cable trays.
11 August 2020 Download Thermal shield lift frame: tests underway In the ITER Assembly Hall, another pair of assembly tools designed and procured by Korea—the thermal shield frames—are undergoing tests without load. These frames will support tall panels of thermal shielding as they are lifted to vertical for installation of the sector sub-assembly tools.
22 July 2020 Download Preparing for a kickoff event Preparations are underway in the Assembly Hall for ITER's kickoff assembly event on 28 July 2020. French President Emmanuel Macron and government leaders from China, Europe, India, Japan, Korea, Russia and the United States will join. Tune into the livestream by clicking on the video screen at the end of the announcement (https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3473).
22 July 2020 Download Understanding the use of space A lot is happening in the Assembly Hall. This photo explains it all.
15 June 2020 Download Major machine assembly milestone On Tuesday 26 May, the first major machine component—the cryostat base—is lifted by overhead crane and lowered into the Tokamak assembly pit.
26 May 2020 Download Penultimate test Every aspect of the lift operation has been choreographed and practiced in advance of the big day. In one critical test on 20 May, the cryostat base is lifted six metres and then set back onto its supports.
20 May 2020 Download The base of the machine Two weeks remain before the first "big lift" of ITER assembly. Preparatory works are underway to prepare the component for handling and the Tokamak pit for receiving.
04 May 2020 Download Cryostat base enters building Installation contractors have moved the cryostat base from its fabrication workshop on site into the Assembly Hall. (The big lift to the Tokamak Building will take place next month.) The Indian Domestic Agency has delivered the completed component in collaboration with main contractor Larsen & Toubro Heavy Engineering (manufacturing design, segment fabrication in India and assembly at ITER) and MAN Energy Solutions, Germany (Larsen & Toubro sub-contractor for on-site welding).
17 April 2020 Download First machine component enters building The cryostat base enters the Cleaning Facility on a self-propelled modular transporter that has 192 wheels. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 17 April 2020 Download Practicing with the upending tool The upending tool is brought to vertical by the overhead cranes during commissioning tests in the Assembly Hall.
10 April 2020 Download Off to storage If you look closely at the image, you will see one element of the temporary lid as it is carried over the upending tool to a waiting flatbed truck. The lid will be stored on site for reuse later in the assembly phase.
02 April 2020 Download Heaviest piece A half-moon element of the temporary lid is transported through the Assembly Hall to the waiting truck.
02 April 2020 Download Two hands The two 750-tonne overhead cranes take part in the transport of the heaviest elements of the lid, from the Tokamak pit to the waiting truck.
02 April 2020 Download Essential activities on the worksite Activity continues on the ITER worksite for a list of "essential activities" related to buildings and components, with the strict application of social distancing and recommended sanitary measures. For those used to working in the offices of the ITER Organization, however, approximately 95% are currently working from home.
02 April 2020 Download Testing the path before the real loads Totaling approximately 1,000 tonnes, the mock loads are ready to undertake their 170-metre-long journey from the entrance of the Assembly Hall all the way to the opposite end of the newly created crane hall. Testing the load path, and carefully monitoring building inflection as the loads go by, are part of the last commissioning activities before machine assembly.
28 March 2020 Download A big beam for a heavy load The double overhead bridge crane comprises four such 47-metre-long, 155-tonne steel girders, or beams. Arranged in two pairs and working in tandem, they can lift up to 1,500 tonnes. The double overhead bridge crane was tested at 125 percent of its capacity (1,870 tonnes) in December 2017.
28 March 2020 Download 1,000 tonnes The 840-tonne double load on the "north bridge" (right) is complemented by a 156-tonne load on the "south bridge," bringing the total to a little more than 1,000 tonnes. Calculations and modelling are used to extrapolate the effect the actual 1,500-tonne loads will have on the building's structure.
28 March 2020 Download A very clean Cleaning Facility The antechamber to the Assembly Hall—the Cleaning Facility—has been prepped and painted in time to receive the first ITER magnets.
06 March 2020 Download 5-degree increments During tool commissioning activities, the steel cradle is lifted by increments of 5 degrees. A photogrammetric survey is performed between lifts in order to acquire baseline measurements and to monitor deformations.
28 February 2020 Download Getting ready for machine assembly Two important activities in relation to the start of machine assembly are underway: commissioning of the upending tool (pictured) and the commissioning of the heavy lift cranes in the Tokamak Building where the crane rails have been extended over the Tokamak pit.
28 February 2020 Download From horizontal to vertical The largest ITER machine components (the D-shaped toroidal field coils and the vacuum vessel sectors) will be delivered in a horizontal position. They will be "upended" by the tool at right, before being installed on the SSAT pre-assembly tools at left.
28 February 2020 Download Four pins The massive tool nears its resting position on the ground, and four 80-kilogram steel pins (left) are being readied for insertion at the four corners of the tool's base. Pins provide extra security in case of a seismic event.
28 February 2020 Download Team spirit Under the supervision of the ITER Organization, upending tool testing was coordinated by MOMENTUM (ITER's Construction Management-as-Agent). It involved Apave (security), contractors from the assembly consortium DYNAMIC, an operator, and an engineer from crane manufacturer REEL.
25 February 2020 Download Pre-assembly preparations The upending tool is lifted off the floor so that metrologists can measure the planarity of its support pads.
24 February 2020 Download Dancers in a vertical ballet Acrobatic workers are busy disassembling the temporary wall that separates the Assembly Hall from the Tokamak Building.
19 February 2020 Download Up in the rafters Soon, these bridge cranes will be able to travel double distance—not only the length of the Assembly Hall, but that of the adjacent building as well. Crane commissioning activities over the Tokamak pit will start once the temporary wall comes down.
18 February 2020 Download Back in service Two 360-tonne test loads are back on the main tools of the Assembly Hall. With extra weight added, they will be used to commission the overhead cranes in the new crane hall of the Tokamak Building. The temporary wall between the buildings is coming down now.
14 February 2020 Download Next to test: the upending tool Tool commissioning is an important activity, during which the all specified functional requirements are demonstrated. Also, for tools sourced outside of the European Union, it is the occasion to show compliance with EU regulations.
13 December 2019 Download Commissioning with load completed The 360-tonne test load is lowered to the Assembly Hall floor. After six months hooked up first to one, then the other, of the sector sub-assembly tools (left), the test loads will be stored in laydown areas until called for use to commission the upending tool.
13 December 2019 Download Load tests conclusive The commissioning phase for the twin sector sub-assembly tools (SSAT) in the Assembly Hall is over. The final verification tests—with test load (photo)—demonstrated that both tools are performing to expectation.
27 November 2019 Download Upending tool arrives The two halves of the upending tool (right) are headed for installation in the far right corner of the Assembly Hall, on the area of floor that has been painted.
14 November 2019 Download The doors open and ......
 the segments of the upending tool, delivered by Korea, enter. This large structure is designed to "upend" ITER's largest components (toroidal field coils and vacuum vessel sectors) from horizontal to vertical.
07 November 2019 Download As smooth as an ice rink European Domestic Agency contractors are currently coating the floor of the ITER Assembly Hall (6,500 m²) with epoxy resin. A hard, perfectly smooth floor that will resist erosion is one of the main conditions for maintaining cleanliness during pre-assembly operations.
29 October 2019 Download First zone completed The area to be painted has been divided into four zones. One has been completed, in time for the delivery of the upending tool from Korea next week. A total of 24 tonnes of epoxy resin will be needed to cover the full floor surface of the Hall.
29 October 2019 Download Shift of weight In late September, the second 360-tonne load (at left) was transferred to SSAT tool #2 (on the right). After one month of functional tests on the second tool, the loads will be removed and stored until needed for the testing of the "upending" structure that has been shipped by Korea. (See more on that tool here: https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3112) 30 September 2019 Download Antechamber to the Assembly Hall After leaving storage, ITER's largest components will be submitted to a thorough cleaning process in the antechamber of the Assembly Hall, the Cleaning Facility (photo). The large doors will then open to allow the component, on its transport platform, to enter the Hall where the overhead cranes can take over. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 September 2019 Download Rotated completely The wings of the first sector sub-assembly tool (SSAT1) have been fully rotated inward and the tool has performed as expected. Later this month, the mock loads will be transferred to SSAT2. Both tools will enter service in 2020.
04 September 2019 Download Two mounted Two mock loads were built in Scotland by Doosan Babcock and shipped to ITER for assembly. They represent a combined weight of 700 tonnes, now mounted on the tool SSAT#1. Rotational tests begin late in July.
23 July 2019 Download A little push by hand ...
Even in the most technical of operations, there is always a need for final adjustment by hand. Seen vertically, the loads share the D-shape of the toroidal field coils they are meant to represent. They also reproduce the centre of gravity and mass distribution of the coils.
22 July 2019 Download Inching up One 350-tonne dummy load, representing a toroidal field coil, is slowly upended using both the double overhead crane at one end and a powerful telescopic crane at the other.
19 July 2019 Download Travelling now The upended load is carried to the first tool, to be installed on one of its wings.
19 July 2019 Download Two mock loads Two mock loads weighing 350 tonnes have been constructed from steel and concrete (far left) to represent the D-shaped toroidal field coils that will be mounted on the wings of the assembly tools. Lifting and installation will begin soon.
11 July 2019 Download Open arms Standing in front of one of the sub-sector assembly tools is Swiss photographer Luca Zanier, who spent two days at ITER in July in pursuit of "unusual" perspectives in industry.
03 July 2019 Download Inspecting the loads Made of seven different steel-and-concrete modules, the dummies slightly exceed the weight of the actual coil but closely reproduce their centre of gravity and distribution of mass.
01 July 2019 Download Preparing the lift The load modules are held together by strong threaded tension bars called "Macalloys." The stress on these bars was tested recently by lifting the load several centimetres above the shop floor as part of preparatory activities for the real lift.
01 July 2019 Download Steel and concrete modules to make the weight Each dummy load is made of seven assembled modules of varying weights.
01 July 2019 Download Loads prepared Load tests are about to start on the twin sector sub-assembly tools (SSAT). The mock loads in the foreground—weighing 350 tonnes each—will be installed on the tool "wings" to measure their capacity to rotate inwards and adjust to within millimetre tolerances.
12 June 2019 Download Mechanical testing underway on SSAT tools With both sector sub-assembly tools (SSATs) now erected, mechanical load testing can start. In April, teams begin testing the movement of upper alignment units. Load testing is schedule for June.
25 April 2019 Download Up high At the top of the second SSAT tool, contractors are assembling the final elements.
10 January 2019 Download A pair of hands is still useful Lessons learned from the first tool have reduced assembly time for SSAT-2 by approximately one-third. Still, some manual operations are still required...
10 January 2019 Download Near twins The second SSAT tool is rising quickly in the Assembly Hall. Each of these 800-tonne behemoths can carry component assemblies of 1,200 tonnes.
29 November 2018 Download Sturdy wings Precision hydraulics will drive the lateral wings of the SSAT tools, which rotate to deliver the toroidal field coils to their installation fixtures on the vacuum vessel sector.
29 November 2018 Download A novel angle This 800-tonne tool, seen from a novel angle, stands 22 metres tall and can handle a 1,200-tonne subassembly. And it will soon have an identical twin in the Assembly Hall ...
12 October 2018 Download Well anchored The tools are solidly anchored in the concrete floor of the Assembly Hall. In the foreground is the footing arrangement for the inboard column.
12 October 2018 Download Load tests next year Both tools will be tested with a full-weight dummy load, expected on site in March 2019. Load testing is the final tool qualification activity, allowing operators to verify the tools' ability to accurately adjust the dummy load toroidally and to six degrees of freedom within tolerances of +/- 1 millimetre.
12 October 2018 Download From the rafters The technician walking along the curved rails gives us a sense of the tool's scale. The first segment of tool #2 has been positioned for installation.
12 October 2018 Download Assembly stations On the floor of the Assembly Hall, across from the SSAT tools, other bespoke handling stations will be installed—for example, for the assembly of the central solenoid.
12 October 2018 Download Precise alignment Specialists are busy installing and precisely aligning the toroidal rail tracks upon which the wings of the giant tool will travel.
12 October 2018 Download Tool #1 All the pieces of the first tool are in place; only hydraulic and electrical connections must be installed. Ahead are functional tests (integrated system tests without the test load), followed by full-load tests.
12 October 2018 Download Broadcast to the world Media crews were invited to tour the ITER site in early October, including the Assembly Hall where one giant tool stands and another is going up.
10 October 2018 Download Soon ...two tools The assembly of the second tool starts next month. As the wall poster shows, there will be two identical handling tools working from 2019 on to equip the vacuum vessel sectors for delivery to the machine pit.© Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 05 September 2018 Download Shimmering A worksite crane is reflected from the mirror surface of the Assembly Hall in August.
14 August 2018 Download Tanks awaiting installation For now the Cleaning Facility—at the entrance of the Assembly Hall—can be used for storage. In this picture are four tanks for the pressure suppression system of the vacuum vessel, which will be installed in the Tokamak Building in August. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 25 July 2018 Download First tool up The 800-tonne tools are designed to support charges of up to 1,200 tonnes.
18 July 2018 Download Strong arms The sector sub-assembly tools (SSAT) will support a vacuum vessel sector vertically while operations that can only take place in a spacious area—the addition of large thermal shielding sections and the attachment of a pair of D-shaped toroidal field magnets—are carried out.
17 July 2018 Download Waiting on its double A second sector sub-assembly tool has been manufactured and tested in Korea, and then shipped to ITER for assembly. After commissioning, the first tool will enter operations with the arrival of vacuum vessel sector #6 in Q2 2019.
17 July 2018 Download A knowledgeable guide 13,000 visitors passed through ITER in 2017 and a similar number is expected this year. Pictured: the ITER Director-General leads a tour for US Secretary of Energy Rick Perry and US Ambassador to France Jamie McCourt.
11 July 2018 Download All columns in place The first 22-metre-tall, 800-tonne SSAT tool is now in place. Precision hydraulic equipment will be installed next. (SSAT stands for vacuum vessel Sector Sub-Assembly Tool.) 18 May 2018 Download 90% completed Imagine: two of these giant tools will be working side-by-side during the pre-assembly phase of the ITER vacuum vessel.
18 May 2018 Download Room for another The rails are already in place for tool #2.
18 May 2018 Download Two other columns The two outboard columns, which have been assembled horizontally, will be standing by end-April.
09 April 2018 Download Wings open With its wings open, the tool is impressive indeed. Each wing will slowly rotate in to align 310-tonne toroidal field coils to each side of a vacuum vessel sector.
09 April 2018 Download Behind the wall ...
When the Tokamak Building is completed, the temporary wall to the right will come down. The vacuum vessel sector sub-assemblies won't have far to travel to the Tokamak Pit.
05 April 2018 Download Three strong legs This tool has been designed for 1,200-tonne loads. Structural elements on the inside of the tool's three pillars contribute to stability.
05 April 2018 Download Two, for faster assembly Next to the first tool, base rail plates have been installed for the twin tool that is undergoing factory acceptance tests now in Korea. Two tools will allow the vacuum vessel sector pre-assembly period to be divided by ... half.
05 April 2018 Download First tool rising After a long period during which the anchoring elements—including base plates and rails—were set into place and precise measurements taken, the installation of ITER's first giant assembly tool is underway.
23 February 2018 Download Strong arms The 800-tonne tool, once fully erected, will be capable of supporting loads of 1,200 tonnes.
23 February 2018 Download One here, one there About half of the major components for the first tool have been installed. In parallel, the second tool of the pair has been manufactured and assembled at Taekyung Heavy Industries (THI) in Korea, where testing is underway.
23 February 2018 Download Next door Behind the white plaster board is the Radio Frequency Building. The waveguides for the ion and electron cyclotron resonance heating systems will be routed through the Assembly Hall to the Tokamak Building. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 February 2018 Download From the rafters On the floor, are the rails for a second vacuum vessel sector sub-assembly tool (SSAT #2), which will be sent from Korea as soon as factory testing has concluded. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 February 2018 Download Junior crane This is the smaller of the two overhead crane pairs, which runs along rails underneath the larger crane. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 February 2018 Download Heavy machinery Two pairs of hands will manoeuvre the ITER components from above in the Assembly Hall—the 1,500-tonne crane (on higher rails) and the 50-tonne crane, both visible in this photo. The cranes were supplied by the French firm REEL as part of European procurement contributions. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 February 2018 Download Unusual This unusual photo was taken high up in the structure of the Assembly Hall. Double rows of columns—with bracing structures between them—will help to deflect the weight of the loads managed by the assembly cranes. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 February 2018 Download Three strong legs The inboard column has just four metres to go to reach its final height. Two outboard columns will join the inboard column in anchoring the tool, which will support up to 1,200 tonnes. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 February 2018 Download Guide rails Taken from behind the tool, this picture shows the floor rails that the wings travel along. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 February 2018 Download Sector sub assembly tool The first lateral wing is going up. The wings will allow 310-tonne toroidal field coils to be rotated toward a suspended vacuum vessel sector for installation on either side. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC 20 February 2018 Download Tools to erect the tool In the 100-metre Assembly Hall, telescopic cranes have moved in to assist with the assembly of the building's first tool. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 February 2018 Download Several tools necessary Due to the size of the vacuum vessel sector sub-assembly tool (SSAT), several metrology instrument positions are needed to achieve the best precision measurements. A network of target nests embedded in the ground of the Assembly Building helps position the instruments around the SSAT. Photo: PES Metrology 25 January 2018 Download Down to the millimetre Metrology teams are at work in the Assembly Hall to characterize segments of the SSAT tool before they are lifted into place.
25 January 2018 Download After-hours load tests for the crane Late at night in December the principal crane of the Assembly Building was subjected to loads that were +10%/+25% of nominal—all part of commissioning tests for the important equipment.
18 December 2017 Download It's midnight, but these teams are at work Observers during the load tests include representatives of the crane manufacturer Reel, the ITER Organization, the architect-engineer Engage, and the safety controller Bureau Veritas.
18 December 2017 Download Standing ready These heavy metal blocks—stacked seven tall—will be lifted some 50 metres overhead during testing.
18 December 2017 Download Vertical assembly begins Questions about grouting raised during the installation of the rails have been resolved, and the first tool segment can be moved into place.
22 November 2017 Download Imagining the future When construction of the Tokamak Building ends, the crane rails will be extended over the machine assembly area, as shown in the poster.
22 November 2017 Download Cranes galore This striking view takes in the whole lifting system installed in the Assembly Hall: the massive double overhead bridge crane, with a lifting capacity of 1,500 tonnes (top), and its much smaller sibling the 50-tonne auxiliary crane sitting on rails three metres below.
22 November 2017 Download Complex machinery Trolleys and cranes of various capacities fill most of the space in the Assembly Hall rafters. Like a catwalk in a theatre, they host the invisible machinery that makes the production possible.
22 November 2017 Download Laying rails, adjusting torque Plates and rails for the first of the twin Titans, SSAT-1, are temporarily in place. Once the torque has been hydraulically adjusted on every bolt and the positioning laser-aligned, the assembly of the 20-metre-high handling tool will begin.
22 November 2017 Download A truly international operation Procured by Korea, the twin SSATs are being assembled by technicians from the French company CNIM. The operation is being closely monitored by quality insurance specialists from the ITER Organization, by ITER's Construction Management-as-Agent contractor MOMENTUM, and by a representative of the manufacturer Taekyung Heavy Industries (THI).
22 November 2017 Download Hooked! This massive hook is one of four, each with a lifting capacity of 375 tonnes, that belong to the double overhead bridge crane installed 43 metres above the floor in the Assembly Hall.
22 November 2017 Download Lifting 1,500 tonnes ... and more Load tests are scheduled to begin in the first week of December. A final test at 25 percent over-capacity (1,875 tonnes) will verify that the flexion of the 43-metre-long bridge crane girders remains within specifications.
22 November 2017 Download Curved rails in place Rails have been installed on the base plates.
10 November 2017 Download Looking beyond the wall A new poster in the Assembly Hall shows how—once the temporary wall is removed—the cranes will travel into the Tokamak Building to deposit their loads.
10 November 2017 Download First foot This large element will be the base segment of one of the tool's three huge columns. Three other segments of varying sizes will be stacked on top of it.
10 November 2017 Download Solidly anchored Details of the anchoring system for the tool rails.
08 November 2017 Download Like an Erector set Everything is laid out for the first stages of assembly of the SSAT tools (for vacuum vessel Sector Sub-Assembly Tool), including the first "foot" of one of the massive columns.
08 November 2017 Download Working as partners Just below the heavy lift cranes are two smaller, more agile cranes capable of lifting 50 tonnes.
08 November 2017 Download In detail A close-up of one of the 750-tonne cranes, with hooks that are ready to lift 375 tonnes each. Load tests will be run soon as part of the crane's commissioning activities.
08 November 2017 Download A full view Looking down across the full 97-metre length of the Assembly Hall. The travelling cranes are approximately 45 metres above floor level.
08 November 2017 Download That ... is a large hook Four giant hooks like this one will hang from the double overhead cranes in the Assembly Hall, each one with a lift capacity of 375 tonnes.
17 October 2017 Download A careful first step Before the mammoth tool can be erected in the Assembly Hall, the anchoring technology must be carefully installed.
26 September 2017 Download Cleaning facility In the future, this vestibule will be dedicated to the cleaning of ITER components before they are delivered into the Assembly Hall. For now, though, part of it is reserved for storage.
19 September 2017 Download Assembly of first tool underway The French company CNIM has been charged by the Korean manufacture of the SSAT (sector sub-assembly tool) with the responsibility of mounting the tool in the Assembly Hall. Work is underway now.
06 September 2017 Download Measuring the size of the beast The SSAT tools for the pre-assembly of vacuum vessel sectors are monsters, weighing 800 tonnes and standing 22 metres tall. Seeing the size of the footprint helps us to measure just how massive they are.
29 August 2017 Download Preparing for giants In one corner of the Assembly Hall, workers are installing the base plates that will support the rails of ITER's largest assembly tools—the twin sector sub-assembly tools (SSAT). The red panels will be moved forward to mesh with the pre-built apertures, before the operation is repeated for the second row.
29 August 2017 Download Anchoring the first tools The red plates will anchor the rails of the Assembly Hall's largest tools: the vacuum vessel sub-sector assembly tools (SSAT). The first tool should be standing by the end of the year. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 29 August 2017 Download Looking up The two large overhead cranes of the Assembly Hall are currently undergoing functional tests.
12 July 2017 Download A vast volume to clean ...
In the 60-metre-tall building for pre-assembly activities, workers go over the painted surface of the basemat. Not a small task! 12 July 2017 Download The box within the box A "box within a box" space has been installed in the Cleaning Facility to store deliveries to the Assembly Hall.
12 July 2017 Download A place for storage The storage "box" in the Cleaning Facility, seen from above. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 12 July 2017 Download Crane tests Functional tests for the overhead handling cranes are underway now.
04 July 2017 Download A clean space in the Cleaning Facility In the adjacent Cleaning Facility, a storage structure has been erected to keep the elements of the sector sub-assembly tools out of the dust during assembly. The first crates reached ITER in June from Korea.
27 June 2017 Download The doors are open today Around the back of the Assembly Hall, we can see through the open doors of the Cleaning Facility. A temporary structure has been erected there for the storage of assembly tool components that are arriving from Korea. In the meantime, a helium cold box is transported along the road to the cryoplant.
22 June 2017 Download Where the giants will stand As the elements of the first giant sector sub-assembly tool begin arriving on site from Korea, workers are readying the corner of the Assembly Hall where they will stand.
14 June 2017 Download Standing tall The Assembly Hall remains the tallest structure on the ITER platform. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 31 May 2017 Download No longer stands alone With the completion of the Site Services Building (foreground) and the strong progress on the Radio Frequency Heating Building (adjoining) the Assembly Hall no longer stands alone in the middle of the platform. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 April 2017 Download Finishing works underway Interior clapboard and painting works are underway in the Assembly Hall, which will receive its first large assembly tool this summer. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 April 2017 Download Heading up! To access the overhead cranes, please take the stairs! Commissioning tests are planned soon on the two 750-tonne cranes that are installed 45 metres overhead. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 April 2017 Download Door panels The Cleaning Facility at the entrance of the Assembly Hall is being equipped with sliding doors. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 April 2017 Download Mirror mirror on the wall All of the principal buildings of the ITER installation will be covered in mirror cladding, as seen here on the Cleaning Facility, Assembly Hall and Site Services Building. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 January 2017 Download Slowly but surely In front of the Assembly Hall, work is progressing on level L1 of the Tokamak Complex (ground level). When the Tokamak Building is completed in 2018, it will stand as tall as the Assembly Hall.
19 December 2016 Download The northern side of the construction platform Looking northeast over the ITER site. From left to right: the Tokamak Complex (under construction), the Assembly Hall and its antechamber—the Cleaning Facility. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 19 December 2016 Download Sister cranes Two overhead cranes with a capacity to lift 50 tonnes each are shown installed a few metres below the one of the two 750-tonne cranes (the second is not pictured). © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 12 December 2016 Download To come next: tooling After the installation this week of the facility's second overhead crane, the next milestone will be the delivery of the first bespoke tool for ITER assembly—one of the two giant sub-sector assembly tools.
08 December 2016 Download A second pair of hands The NKMNOELL-REEL consortium (formed by NKMNoell Special Cranes, Germany and REEL SAS, France) has manufactured two pairs of cranes for the Assembly Hall: the 750-tonne cranes installed in June 2016 and the 50-tonne auxiliary cranes, pictured.
08 December 2016 Download Cranes installed in December Cranes are used inside the building to lift the girders of the 50-tonne crane into place. This auxiliary crane will be installed on rails that are a few metres below the heavy-lift crane.
08 December 2016 Download To be installed The girders for the 50-tonne crane will be installed just below the principal crane assembly seen at the top of the image. Photo: ENGAGE 10 November 2016 Download Reflective surfaces Looking up at the reflective surface of the Assembly Hall.
10 November 2016 Download Four new crane girders arrive In addition to two overhead cranes with a lift capacity of 750-tonnes each, the Assembly Hall will be equipped with a set of 50-tonne cranes. In November, four girders for this smaller set were delivered to the shop floor.
10 November 2016 Download ITER from afar The Assembly Hall, with its giant poster of the ITER machine, is the most visible feature of the ITER site from a distance. In 2018, the adjacent Tokamak Building will match it in height.
08 October 2016 Download Framed by rebar The 60-metre-tall Assembly Building seen from the B1 level of the Tokamak Complex. Work is currently underway on level two of the seven-storey building.
26 July 2016 Download The largest structure on the platform In some light, the silver cladding on the sides of the Assembly Building appears black. © EJF Riche 11 July 2016 Download Mission completed The assembly cranes are in place, and a project milestone for 2016 has been achieved.
07 July 2016 Download In detail A close-up of the rail mechanism employed for the overhead cranes.
07 July 2016 Download Tall building ... giant tokamak A giant poster (25 x 50 m) of the Tokamak ensconced in its concrete building has been installed on the temporary wall of the Assembly Building. The poster image is 70 percent of the machine's actual size.
28 June 2016 Download Installation of main cranes advances well In late June, two trolleys remain to be lifted and installed for the main Assembly Hall cranes. Two smaller cranes, each with a lifting capacity of 50 tonnes, will be installed in September/October.
27 June 2016 Download Makes you feel small ...
The person standing on the support rails looks positively tiny next to the mammoth 47-metre-long steel girder ...
27 June 2016 Download A balancing act Before the lift, the load must be carefully balanced on the hook. This operation takes much longer than the actual lifting.
26 June 2016 Download Like a giant blackboard Cladding is now completed. In a few days, a giant poster of the ITER Tokamak will be installed.
24 June 2016 Download Trolley rides to the top On Friday 17 June, a trolley is lifted to join the two girders already in place. Operators moved the girders to the end of the building to free the opening in the roof.
17 June 2016 Download Assembly Building in June The cladding on the northwest facade of the building is nearly completed, and the crawler crane is in place for crane assembly.
14 June 2016 Download June lift Four girders and four trolleys will be lifted into place over a period of 10 days. The first girders were installed on 14 and 16 June, followed by first of the four 100-tonne trolleys.
14 June 2016 Download Gaining weight Gear motors, wheels, braces, and electrical equipment ... the fitting out of the girders has added some 30 tonnes. Each girder now weighs 186 tonnes.
14 June 2016 Download Through a hole in the roof A man-sized hook is passed through an opening in the roof by the beam of the crawler crane. The crane operator, with no direct line of sight to the lifting operations, receives radio instructions from the "rigger," who oversees the whole operation.
14 June 2016 Download Push, pull and tilt As the girder is lifted toward the overhead rails, 43 metres above the basemat of the Assembly Hall, a bit of pushing and pulling tilts it in the right direction.
14 June 2016 Download Spectacular operation to come The girders and trolleys of the overhead cranes are delivered to the Assembly Hall in early June. They will be lifted into position by a huge crawler crane operating from outside the building and passing its hook through an opening in the roof.
02 June 2016 Download An unusual view The Tokamak Pit and ITER Headquarters, as seen from the rear of the Assembly Building.
02 June 2016 Download At the level of the overhead cranes After the lifting operation, the cranes will be able to move along the rails of the Assembly Building (visible here). Later, when the Tokamak Building is completed, the rails will be extended over the Tokamak Pit installation area.
02 June 2016 Download Another rail is positioned Each rail is fastened with heavy clips to the ledge formed by the railway beams.
12 May 2016 Download Climbing 45 metres toward the roof Heading up to the level of the overhead crane rails (15 stories), our photographer shot this picture through the pillars of the Assembly Hall.
12 May 2016 Download Careful assembly process It will take a few weeks to install the rails and fine tune their alignment.
12 May 2016 Download Piece by piece Each rail segment is between 10 and 18 metres long and will rest on beams that run the entire length of the Assembly Building (and, one day, the Tokamak Building).
12 May 2016 Download Adding the rails 43 metres above the basemat of the Assembly Hall, workers are laying the rails for the lifting system that will handle components weighing up to 1,500 tonnes.
12 May 2016 Download Cranes coming soon Rails will be set in place for the components of the massive overhead cranes. The rails will be 45 metres above the basemat.
26 April 2016 Download From a high perch What looks like small Lego bricks are actually barriers protecting the anchor plates for ITER's largest assembly tools—the 800-tonne sub-sector assembly tools.
26 April 2016 Download A temporary wall The frame is up for the temporary wall that will be erected between the Assembly Hall and the Tokamak Complex, until construction of the Tokamak Complex is complete.
26 April 2016 Download The Assembly Hall ... from the inside To capture this original view of the 60-metre-tall ITER Assembly Hall, our photographer stretched out flat on his back.
26 April 2016 Download Polished! Cladding work has ended on the north face. The cut-out section is reserved for the Radio Frequency Heating Building, which will be built up against the Assembly Hall. © EJF Riche 22 April 2016 Download A second pair of girders The logistics of bringing two 47-tonne girders along the roads from the Mediterranean Sea to the ITER site takes careful planning. Here, the double convoy is parked near Peyrolles-en-Provence while operators wait for nightfall to conduct the components at 5 km/hour along the last leg of the ITER Itinerary.
21 April 2016 Download Flying past Taken by drone, this photo captures the interior of the 97-metre-long Assembly Building, where the largest tokamak components will be pre-assembled before their installation. © EJF Riche 12 April 2016 Download Working at heights The installation of cladding on the 60-metre-tall ITER Assembly Hall requires specific techniques and safety measures.
22 March 2016 Download The intended effect As the reflective cladding advances along the metal structure of the Assembly Building, the colours of a March day in Provence appear.
22 March 2016 Download First girder In June this girder, and three others, will be installed on rails inside of the Assembly Building—some 45 metres overhead.
18 March 2016 Download Giant footprints The concrete basemat of the hall is ready to receive the twin Sector Sub-Assembly tools, 800 tonnes each, that will pre-assemble the vacuum vessel sectors with the toroidal field magnets and thermal shielding before installation in the pit. Photo: F4E 03 March 2016 Download A steel exterior The steel exterior of the Assembly Hall reflects the technological nature of the assembly operations that will take place inside. Photo: F4E 03 March 2016 Download Running 175 m Crane rails will run the entire length of the Assembly Building, and later the Tokamak Building, to form a continuous, 175-metre-long crane bay. Photo: F4E 03 March 2016 Download Cladding advances The first panels are in place on the south side. The building should be entirely covered in cladding in June. Photo: ENGAGE 16 February 2016 Download Strong legs A double-column structure is in place to support the incredible weight of the cranes themselves (700 tonnes each) and their heaviest loads (1,250 tonnes). Photo: ENGAGE 16 February 2016 Download Starting on the other side Northern-facing cladding has now been connected to the roof and the first panels are in place on the south side (at right, behind the stairs). Photo: ENGAGE 16 February 2016 Download 16 February 2016 Download Giant beams, coming soon Four large girder beams (45 metres in length) will cross the breadth of the Assembly Hall to support the overhead cranes. The support beams, visible in this photo, run the full 97 metres of the facility. Photo: ENGAGE 16 February 2016 Download Reflecting the blue sky On the northern face of the Assembly Building, work progresses on four layers of cladding. The last layer, in polished steel, will reflect the colour of the sky.
04 February 2016 Download Full cladding by May If all goes according to schedule, work on the cladding will end in April.
31 January 2016 Download Installing crane beams During ITER assembly, a pair of independent bridge cranes will run the entire length of the Tokamak and Assembly buildings, manoeuvring and transporting components. The first beams for the crane bay were lifted into place in January to trial the bolting operations. After all the beams are in place, workers will install the rails in time for the arrival of the first bridge crane late in June.
12 January 2016 Download The entry point to the Assembly Hall Before they enter into the Assembly Hall ITER components will need to be cleaned using a number of different techniques such as compressed clean air, pressurized demineralized water, and special detergents. Construction of the Cleaning Facility is underway on the south side of the building.
12 January 2016 Download Dressing the steel skeleton Four layers of the cladding will eventually cover the Assembly Hall, including an insulating layer. The outermost panes will be mirror-like, to reflect the sky and surroundings.
17 December 2015 Download Cladding operations underway The 6:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. night shift is at work on the far side of the Assembly Hall, bolting together the steel lattice that will support the metal cladding.
10 December 2015 Download 14,000 m² to be covered 60 metres tall, 97 metres long, 60 metres wide. There are 14,000 square metres of surface to cover with cladding.
10 December 2015 Download 45 metres above ground In November, an operator works on the Assembly Building, where the crane rails will be installed. Photo: F4E 30 November 2015 Download ITER at night The ITER Assembly Hall stands out on the construction platform on a clear and cold November evening. ©Christophe Roux - CEA/IRFM 27 November 2015 Download Seen from above A drone shot of the Assembly Building roof structure. In order to install the heavy-lift cranes inside the building, part of the roof will be opened to allow a lift cable—from a tall crane outside of the building—to be lowered within.
15 October 2015 Download Spider Hall A giant, 22-legged arachnid seems to have taken up residence on the ITER site ... Following the roof lifting operation on 11 September, the temporary structures that held the hydraulic jacks have been removed and workers have nearly finished tightening 3,000 connexion bolts.
14 October 2015 Download And the tallest is ...
The ITER Assembly Building is now the tallest structure on site. © MatthieuCOLIN.com 21 September 2015 Download From behind the hill The steel structure of the Assembly Building, seen from the logistics platform located behind the platform. (In the foreground, the Cryostat Workshop is visible.) 16 September 2015 Download They've done it! Posing for a group picture under the Assembly Hall roof are staff members from the Buildings, Infrastructure and Power Supplies (BIPS) Project Team, architect-engineer Engage, APAVE (safety specialists), Martifer (steel structure assembly), and VSL (heavy lifting).
11 September 2015 Download The symbolic ribbon cutting On 11 September 2015, Director-General Bernard Bigot underlines the importance of the latest milestone achieved on the worksite: "Here, in this antechamber to the Tokamak Complex, the principal elements of the machine with be fitted out and preassembled. Without this building, there would be no assembly, and without assembly there would be no machine and no project." 11 September 2015 Download Successful lift operation The roof segment of the ITER Assembly Building is successfully raised to its final position in September. Held in place by temporary jacks following a 14-hour lift operation, the 730-tonne metal structure will be secured to the side pillars in the weeks to come.
11 September 2015 Download A few weeks to secure the structure When the roof structure is fully secured to the side columns, the temporary structures put in place for the lift cables (top) will be dismantled.
11 September 2015 Download Centimetre by centimetre Over the course of 14 hours, 22 hydraulic jacks hoisted the huge structure along thick steel cables that hung from support structures that had been temporarily fixed to the top of the pillars.
10 September 2015 Download And off it goes Laser metrology is used to verify the position of the structure as it is lifted. Tolerances of only 35 mm from highest to lowest point are permitted.
10 September 2015 Download Lifted at 5 km/hour The structure is first lifted 20 cm and left to hang in order to measure the deflection of the steel and check the hydraulic pressure of the jacks. Then, the structure is lifted at approximately 5 km/hour.
10 September 2015 Download Roof lift, seen from the pit And the roof structure rises, inch by inch. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 10 September 2015 Download 800-tonne roof structure lifted 10-11 September 2015 In a 15-hour operation that began on 10 September, the 800-tonne roof structure for the Assembly Building is being slowly lifted to its final position at 50 metres above the basemat. A ceremony is planned to mark the end of the construction milestone on 11 September.
31 August 2015 Download Side pillars near completion The southern side of the structure will soon be completed. When that happens, the roof beams will be lifted into place.
17 July 2015 Download An assembly of steel beams Over 200 individual beams—and 85,000 bolts—make up the metal structure of the Assembly Building.
07 July 2015 Download All eyes look up The structure of the Assembly Building, seen from the Tokamak Pit, is truly impressive.
30 May 2015 Download Double pillars for strong support Within the Assembly Building, two 750-tonne cranes working in tandem will lift loads up to 1,500 tonnes during assembly, assisted by two 50-tonne auxiliary cranes. Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 30 May 2015 Download In black and white Soon to reach 60 metres, the pillars of the Assembly Building loom over the Tokamak Seismic Pit below. Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 30 May 2015 Download Assembly of roof structure underway As the pillars of the Assembly Building rise, work is underway in parallel to assemble the roof structure. In August, the roof assembly will be lifted in one piece by way of hydraulic jacks and cables.
27 May 2015 Download One more level to go On the north side of the Assembly Building basemat, four vertical pillar segments out of five are in place (appr. 48 m). Visible in the picture: the metal balcony that will support rails for the overhead assembly cranes.
27 May 2015 Download Soon to be the tallest structure When completed, the Assembly Building will stand 60 metres tall (nearly 200 feet).
27 May 2015 Download For the feet of giants On the Assembly Building basemat, workers pour concrete into the areas reserved for the largest assembly tools. The tools themselves will be fixed to the floor by steel plates and rails. Photo: F4E 05 May 2015 Download The largest assembly tool The steel "footprint" (at right) gives an idea of the largest tool for ITER assembly - the 22-metre-tall, 800-tonne Sector Sub-Assembly tool. Two of these giants, operating side by side in the Assembly Building, will equip the sectors of the vacuum vessel before their installation in the machine. Photo: F4E 05 May 2015 Download Fourth-level colums and work on the roof As the fourth level columns are installed (bringing the structure to 48 metres), work has started on the ground to assemble the structure of the roof, which will be lifted and set into place in one piece.
28 April 2015 Download Up to the third level The Assembly Building construction project, on a clear day in April.
08 April 2015 Download 12 ... 24 ... 36 The first third-level pillar is up, and the metal structure of the building is now 36 metres tall.
12 February 2015 Download Ten in a row Double pillars stand aligned on the Assembly Building basemat. An eleventh pillar will take its place (at left) when the Tokamak Complex walls reach the same level. Photo: F4E 11 February 2015 Download See the building from above! Progress on the Assembly Building pillars is easily measured from above.
03 February 2015 Download Tightening the bolts For each pillar assembly, a two-person team manually tightens the bolts on columns weighing 23 tonnes (exterior) or 11 tonnes (interior).
02 February 2015 Download Beginning on the other side The first pillar is in place on the opposite of the Assembly Building basemat.
02 February 2015 Download The Assembly Building worksite in January As the Assembly Building's steel skeleton is progressively bolted into place, the massive size of the construction becomes more and more evident.
16 January 2015 Download Reaching the sky When finished, the Assembly Building will reach the height of the tallest crane.
18 December 2014 Download Starting on the second level On one side of the Assembly Building basemat in December, work begins on the second level of pillars.
18 December 2014 Download First level finished on one side In December, the first level of steel pillars is completed along one side of the Assembly Building basemat; work begins on level two before the end of the month. Six thousand tons of steel will be needed for the building's structure. Photo: F4E 01 December 2014 Download Another 48 metres to go The first level pillars for the Assembly Building measure 12 metres in height. Four more 12-metres sections will be installed on this base to complete the 60-metre structure. Photo: F4E 20 November 2014 Download Beams going up The erection of 12-metre beams continues along the northern side of the Assembly Building basemat. Photo: F4E 20 November 2014 Download Pillar parts Stored near the worksite where the pillars are being assembled are the plates, bolts and bars of the pillar assemblies.
18 November 2014 Download The footprint of a large tool In this area of the Assembly Building basemat, large custom-built tools will be anchored.
18 November 2014 Download Two of the tools will be twice this height These 12-metre columns are tall, but let's put them in perspective. The two tools that will manage vacuum vector sector sub-assembly will stand 22 metres tall in the Assembly Building—or nearly twice the columns pictured.
28 October 2014 Download Heavy bolts A parallel row of columns will support the Assembly Building roof from each side of the basemat. Pictured, the support braces that tie the rows together.
28 October 2014 Download Piece by piece An inspection of one of the 12-metre column sections that will be assembled as part of the steel "skeleton" of the Assembly Building.
28 October 2014 Download Work begins on the Assembly Building Another seven double pillar assemblies like those pictured here will complete one side of the supporting structure for the Assembly Building, before workers begin erecting pillars on the opposite side. The 12-metre columns are one-fifth of their final height. One year of construction will be necessary to complete the Assembly Building. Photo: Engage 20 October 2014 Download Twice as high as the Cryostat Workshop The Assembly Building will rise 60 metres, or more than twice as high as the Cryostat Workshop seen in the background.
01 October 2014 Download The first pillars Late September, the first pillars of the Assembly Building were installed. Eleven main pillars, and 11 supporting pillars, will be erected along each side of the basemat.
01 October 2014 Download How it will look The 60-metre tall Assembly Building is the antechamber to the Tokamak Building. Its overhead cranes (in yellow) will run the full length of both buildings to deliver pre-assembled components for in-pit assembly. Image courtesy of Groupement VFR (Vinci - Ferrovial - Razel) 01 October 2014 Download Enter through this door! The Assembly Building and the Tokamak Building (in solid white) will stand 60 metres tall on the ITER platform. Image courtesy of Groupement VFR (Vinci - Ferrovial - Razel) Download A busy workshop This vast workshop will host custom-made tools as well as two 750-tonne cranes that will travel the length of the building to pre-assemble components for the ITER Tokamak. Image courtesy of Groupement VFR (Vinci - Ferrovial - Razel) Download Pre-assembly operations will happen here The Assembly Building—a vast antechamber to the Tokamak Complex—will house the specialized assembly tooling required for pre-assembly operations. The 6,000 m² basemat of the Assembly Building won't be visible for long: construction begins this year on the walls of the facility, which will rise 60 metres above the platform.
17 June 2014 Download Assembly Building: heavy tools to come The Assembly Building basemat will support the load of the heavy custom-built tools that will pre-assemble vacuum vessel components. The openings in the concrete, visible in the image, are reserved for the embedded plates that will fix the tools to the basemat.
21 March 2014 Download Assembly Building: walls will rise in June Work on the steel frame of the Assembly Building is scheduled to begin in early July.
12 February 2014 Download The platform at the of 2013 Technical galleries are underway all around the Assembly Building. The building should begin to take form at the same time as the adjacent Tokamak Complex.
29 November 2013 Download Latest aerial photograph A view from the sky of the Tokamak Complex worksite, where walls will begin to rise next year, and the completed basemat of the Assembly Building (foreground).
11 September 2013 Download Last bits Finishing, cleaning and testing works are carried out on the Assembly Building slab in July.
20 July 2013 Download A platform for assembly Overhead cranes running the length of the Assembly and Tokamak buildings will operate like a pair of safe hands to move the heavy components to the Tokamak Pit and position them during assembly. Photo: GTM Bâtiment VINCI 20 June 2013 Download Space left for tooling On the completed Assembly Building basemat the footprints of three large assembly tools are visible. Here anchor plates will provide the interface between the tools and the concrete basemat.
18 June 2013 Download Basemat done, spaces remain for the anchoring of large tools On the completed Assembly Building basemat, three segments (or box-outs) remain unpoured. The largest assembly tools will be anchored here; some interfaces between the anchor plates and the tooling remain to be defined. Photo: F4E 28 May 2013 Download A train station? Spaces are maintained between the different segments of the basemat to accommodate the tracks of a small ITER "railroad." The four large cryostat segments--cylinders measuring 30 metres in diameter—will travel from the Cryostat Workshop to the Assembly Building by rail.
21 May 2013 Download Last pouring day Work begun in November 2012 is concluded in May 2013 with the last pour for the Assembly Building basemat.
21 May 2013 Download The centre of it all The heart of construction activity will take place here in the next years: the Tokamak Complex and Assembly Building. Both structures will rise above the tallest cranes to reach 60 metres. Photo: F4E 07 May 2013 Download Basemat now finished Space has been reserved within the basemat of the Assembly Building for the passage of electrical cables. Photo: F4E 07 May 2013 Download Basemat 85% completed The basemat of the Assembly Building is nearly finished. Beginning next year, work will begin on the metal frame of the 60-metre-tall building, which will house two overhead cranes capable, together, of manipulating loads up to 1,500 tonnes. Photo: F4E/Engage 23 April 2013 Download The cranes are back From the top of the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility, the progression of the Assembly Building slab is evident: the last segment will be poured in May 2013. On the left, the first crane is positioned for foundation work in the Seismic Pit. Photo: F4E 14 March 2013 Download Two pieces Each concrete plot is poured in two segments with a joint between them that will be filled in once the concrete is dry. This technique avoids cracking.
14 February 2013 Download Pouring continues Work begins at sunrise on another slab of the Assembly Building basemat. Currently 70 workers are active in this area of the platform.
14 February 2013 Download An antechamber to the Tokamak Complex On the 6,000 m² footprint of the Assembly Hall, it's easy to see the portions of the foundation that are completed. Photo: F4E 01 February 2013 Download Another segment poured Concrete pouring shall continue into April. Photo: F4E 11 January 2013 Download The pedestal for a tall building A building 60 metres high will rest on these foundations which, in some areas, attain 2.2 metres in thickness. Photo: F4E 11 January 2013 Download Rebar stirrups Part of the 1,400 tonnes of steel planned for the Assembly Building basemat, these rebar stirrups will link the upper and lower rebar layers. Photo: F4E 11 January 2013 Download Tailored reinforcement Concrete pouring for the Assembly Building will be completed by the time pouring begins for the adjacent Tokamak Complex in spring 2013. The rebar has been tailored to meet the building's complex system of galleries and penetrations. Photo: F4E 19 December 2012 Download Ankle-deep in fresh concrete Another "plot," or section, of the Assembly Building basemat is poured. Photo: F4E 19 December 2012 Download The smooth floor of the Assembly Building Concrete pouring for the Assembly Building floor continues, section by section. The total surface area to treat is 6,000 square metres. Photo: F4E 19 December 2012 Download A sea of iron Fourteen hundred tons of steel are now distributed in an area measuring 60 x 100 metres. The building's foundation will have a thickness of 1.2‒2.2 metres. Photo: F4E 19 December 2012 Download Looking north In the distance, the snowcapped Montagne de Lure (alt. 1,600 m) and its small family ski resort.
18 December 2012 Download Progress on the Assembly Building basemat at year-end Seventy people are involved in reinforcement and concrete pouring works for the Assembly Building basemat in December.
18 December 2012 Download Smack in the middle In the very centre of the ITER platform: the Assembly Building worksite.
06 December 2012 Download Hills and vales of steel On the 6,000 square-metre site of the future Assembly Building, a complex grid of rebar is taking shape.
28 November 2012 Download Here will stand the tooling The basemat for the Assembly Building will be finished in March. The anchor plates for 4 large assembly tools will be cemented into the concrete. Photo: F4E 16 November 2012 Download As smooth as glass The concrete poured for the Assembly Building is of the finished variety: the finished product will be the actual floor of the tall workshop. Photo: F4E 16 November 2012 Download Complex rebar shapes The foundation for the 60 metre-tall building ranges in thickness from 1.2‒2.2 metres. In between the metal rebar cages, space has been reserved for the electrical galleries, drainage, piping and tunnels that will service the neighbouring Tokamak Complex. Photo: F4E 16 November 2012 Download Surface area: 5,400 square metres Concrete pouring for the Assembly Building slab has been progressing segment by segment since November. Photo: F4E 16 November 2012 Download The centre of it all The Tokamak Complex and the Assembly Building will form a "T" in the middle of the platform (with the Assembly Building in the supporting role). Photo: F4E 12 October 2012 Download A few metres away The five poloidal field magnets that will be fabricated in the on-site Winding Facility (in red) won't have far to travel to the Assembly and Tokamak buildings. Photo: F4E 12 October 2012 Download A complicated geometry Space has been reserved in the foundations for tunnels to house electrical galleries, drainage and piping. Photo: F4E 12 October 2012 Download Supporting the load ...
The foundation slab will vary in thickness from 1.2-2.2 metres. Parts of the foundation will support the embedded anchor plates of the building's large and heavy custom assembly tools. Photo: F4E 12 October 2012 Download Mapping out the steel On top of the blinding layer of concrete, 1,400 tonnes of steel rebar will be placed according to a very specific diagram. Photo: F4E 15 September 2012 Download Rebar activities begin The 5,400 square-metre area of the Assembly Building is covered with a layer of blinding concrete, to prepare for the reinforcement activities to come.
13 September 2012 Download Tooling power supplies will run through here An excavator is at work on an 7x8 metre gallery that will serve as an entry point for most of the electrical cables for the assembly tools and devices.
22 August 2012 Download That's a lot of digging With all of the digging operations for the Assembly Building foundations, the deep underground drainage networks and the establishment of Contractors' Area #2, the tour buses on the site these days are limited to the periphery.
24 July 2012 Download Back to the bulldozers Excavation works for the Assembly Hall aren't as spectacular as those for the Seismic Isolation Pit: only 10,000 m³ needs to be removed.
28 June 2012 Download Vast antechamber to the Tokamak Building The Assembly Building will occupy an area of 6,000 m² to the south of the Tokamak Complex. The vast hall will house the specialized tooling that will accomplish pre-assembly activities for the Tokamak components.
28 June 2012 Download 500 holes As part of excavation work for the future Assembly Hall, 500 holes have been drilled down to 7 metres to profile the rock substrata.
30 May 2012 Download Near the machine pit From 2015 forward, the doors to the Assembly Building (foreground) will regularly open to admit Tokamak components for pre-assembly. From there, it is only a short distance to the machine pit. Image: ITER Organization Download Where assembly begins 60 x 97 x 60 metres: the vast antechamber to the Tokamak Building will be equipped with specialized pre-assembly tooling and mammoth overhead cranes for manoeuvring the heavy components. Image: ITER Organization Download Click for full screen 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 ' + currentmenu.text() + ' Construction Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Building Assembly Building Above, the main hoists of the Assembly Building, capable of handling loads of up to 1,500 tonnes. On the shop floor, some of the specialized tooling required to assemble, lift and finally manoeuver ITER's supersized components.
Building dimensions: Height: 60 metres; Length: 97 metres; Width: 60 metres Basemat: 1,400 tonnes of steel; 10,000 m³ of concrete Structure: 6,000 tonnes of steel Foundation thickness: 1.2‒2.2 metres Number of specialized tools anchored in basemat: 4 Number of columns: 11 main (and eleven supporting) on each side of the building Capacity of main cranes: 1,500 tonnes together Capacity of auxiliary cranes: 50 tonnes each Sector assembly tools | Commissioning with load completed Assembly Hall | Another massive handling tool Assembly Hall | Another massive paint job Load tests | As heavy as a 747 and (almost) as airworthy Load tests | Heavyweight champion Sub-assembly tools | A 12-tonne beam, a crane and a little push ITER assembly | First large tool rises Load tests | Lifting and moving four Boeing 747s Assembly preparation | The ballet of the Titans Assembly Hall | Anchoring a giant tool It's all happening inside Strong arms for 1,500-tonne loads Up go the girders (and trolleys) Hoisting the roof, mountain-climber style For the assembly cranes, integration is key A spectacular antechamber to the Tokamak Building FOR THE PUBLIC Jobs About ITER FAQs Photos Visits Education Donate/Sponsor FOR THE PRESS All News Welcome Facts and Figures ITER Milestones Press Releases Fusion Glossary FOR SCIENTISTS ITPA Fusion Links Conferences How to Publish ITER Technical Reports ITER International School FOR INDUSTRY Procurement Intellectual Property Foreign Workers in France Business Events INTRANET Intranet Sitemap Terms of use Privacy Policy © 2023, ITER Organization ITER Assembly Live Event - 28 JULY The event will be live-streamed, in three parts (all times listed are French local times): 10:00 a.m. — Tour of the ITER worksite and large components on site 11:00 a.m. — Ceremony, including statements by world leaders 12:30 a.m. (or following the ceremony) — Press conference
