Home - Partnership on AI
2020
https://www.partnershiponai.org

OUR WORK How We Work Programs Inclusive Research & Design AI & Media Integrity AI, Labor, and the Economy FTA & ABOUT ML Safety-Critical AI Workstreams Public Policy Impact Stories RESOURCES Blog Resource Library EVENTS ABOUT US About Us Mission, Vision, & Values Pillars Tenets Team Funding Press Careers PARTNERS OUR WORK How We Work Programs Inclusive Research & Design AI & Media Integrity AI, Labor, and the Economy FTA & ABOUT ML Safety-Critical AI Workstreams Public Policy Impact Stories RESOURCES Blog Resource Library EVENTS ABOUT US About Us Mission, Vision, & Values Pillars Tenets Team Funding Press Careers PARTNERS CONTACT × SEARCH Partnership on AI is bringing together diverse voices from across the AI community We are a non-profit community of academic, civil society, industry, and media organizations addressing the most important and difficult questions concerning our future with AI, advancing positive outcomes for people and society.
A framework for model providers to responsibly develop and deploy a range of AI models, promote safety for society, and adapt to evolving capabilities and uses.
Code for Africa, Meedan, the Stanford Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence, Thorn, and Truepic have joined PAI's Responsible Practices for Synthetic Media.
PAI is proud to announce its first Policy Forum and the formation of a new, multistakeholder Policy Steering Committee PAI announced the appointment of Jerremy Holland as Board Chair, and Jatin Aythora and Joelle Pineau as Vice Chairs.
PAI welcomeed five new Partner organizations: Alliance for Africa’s Intelligence, Allen & Overy LLP, Data Privacy Brasil, TechEquity Collaborative, and the Thomson Foundation.
PAI announced the inaugural members of its Global Task Force for Inclusive AI, a body created to ensure that those who are impacted by AI are more directly involved in its creation.
Guidance for Safe Foundation Model Deployment Stories of Impact By creating actionable resources for the AI community, PAI translates critical insights into positive impact on the world Investigating Challenges to Diversity in AI Working in partnership with DeepMind, PAI researchers launched a study to investigate high attrition rates among women and minoritized individuals in tech.
Convening Across Industries In service of transparency and accountability goals, PAI hosted a one-day, in-person workshop around the deployment of “explainable artificial intelligence” (XAI).
Taking a Methodical Approach to Best Practices PAI worked with First Draft to support information integrity, investigating what works (and what does not) when addressing deceptive content online.
Learn More About Our Impact Explore Our Work Currently organized under Programs, our work contributes to the rigorous development of resources, recommendations, and best practices for AI.
Inclusive Research & Design AI, Labor, and the Economy AI and Media Integrity Fairness, Transparency and Accountability & ABOUT ML Safety-Critical AI Inclusive Research & Design AI, Labor, and the Economy AI and Media Integrity Fairness, Transparency and Accountability & ABOUT ML Safety-Critical AI Inclusive Research & Design At PAI, equity and inclusion are core values which we seek to promote among our Partner organizations, in our own work, and throughout the greater AI field, including in machine learning and other automated decision-making systems. This Program explores the many barriers to inclusion in the AI space — as experienced by those who work in technology and those who are consistently excluded from key decision-making processes.
The Inclusive Research and Design Program is currently creating resources to help AI practitioners and impacted communities more effectively engage one another to develop AI responsibly. Ultimately, this work seeks to achieve a more holistic reimagining of how AI is developed and deployed around the world, leading to an AI industry that recognizes end users and impacted communities as essential expert groups.
AI, Labor, and the Economy PAI believes that AI has tremendous potential to solve major societal problems and make peoples’ lives better. At the same time, individuals and organizations must grapple with new forms of automation, wealth distribution, and economic decision-making. Whether AI promotes equality or increases injustice, whether it makes all of us richer or the poor poorer is a choice we, as a world, must consciously make.
To advance a beneficial economic future from AI, the AI, Labor, and the Economy Program gathers Partner organizations, economists, and worker representative organizations. Together, these actors work to form shared answers and recommendations for actionable steps that need to be taken to ensure AI supports an inclusive economic future.
AI and Media Integrity While AI has ushered in an unprecedented era of knowledge-sharing online, it has also enabled novel forms of misinformation, manipulation, and harassment as well as amplifying harmful digital content’s potential impact and reach. PAI’s AI and Media Integrity Program directly addresses these critical challenges to the quality of public discourse by investigating AI’s impact on digital media and online information, researching timely subjects such as manipulated media detection, misinformation interventions, and content-ranking principles.
Through this Program, PAI works to ensure that AI systems bolster the quality of public discourse and online content around the world, which includes considering how we define quality in the first place. By convening a fit-for-purpose, multidisciplinary field of actors — including representatives from media, industry, academia, civil society, and users that consume content — the AI and Media Integrity Program is developing best practices for AI to have a positive impact on the global information ecosystem.
Fairness, Transparency, and Accountability & ABOUT ML Fairness, Transparency, and Accountability encompasses PAI’s large body of research and programming around algorithmic fairness, explainability, criminal justice, and diversity and inclusion. In 2020 alone, this work examined the challenges organizations face when they seek to measure and mitigate algorithmic bias using demographic data, provide meaningful explanations to diverse stakeholders, address bias in recidivism risk assessment tools, and build more inclusive AI teams.
With ABOUT ML, PAI is leading a multistakeholder effort to develop guidelines for the documentation of machine learning systems, setting new industry norms for transparency in AI. This means not just identifying the necessary components of transparency, but releasing actionable resources to help organizations operationalize transparency at scale. Developed through an iterative, multistakeholder process, these resources pool the collective efforts and insights of academic researchers, industry practitioners, civil society organizations, and the impacted public.
Safety-Critical AI Given AI’s potential for misuse, how do we develop and deploy algorithmic systems responsibly? Increasingly, AI systems are being deployed in contexts where safety risks can have widespread consequences, including medicine, finance, transportation, and social media. This makes anticipating and mitigating such risks — in both the near and long term — an urgent societal need.
Our Safety Critical AI Program convenes Partners and other stakeholders to develop best practices that can help us avert likely accidents, misuses, and unintended consequences of AI technologies. We don’t have to wait for such incidents to arise. As our work shows, precaution can be taken as early as the research stage to ensure the development of safe AI systems.
Learn More About Our Programs Explore Our Partners With a diverse Partner community drawn from members across the globe, PAI spans sectors, disciplines, and borders.
By gathering the leading companies, organizations, and people differently affected by artificial intelligence, PAI establishes a common ground between entities that otherwise may not have cause to work together and—in so doing—serves as a uniting force for good in the AI ecosystem.
114 Partners 18 Countries 4 Media 16 Industry 26 Academic 68 Non-profit Latest Updates Blog PAI’s Policy Forum — The Time Is Now to Act Together on AI Governance Rebecca Finlay Oct 27, 2023 Research and Publications PAI’s Guidance for Safe Foundation Model Deployment PAI Staff Oct 24, 2023 Partnership on AI Releases Guidance for Safe Foundation Model Deployment, Takes the Lead to Drive Positive… PAI Staff Oct 24, 2023 Blog General PAI/Policy The AI Community Must Align on Safety: Announcing PAI’s Policy Steering Committee Stephanie Ifayemi Oct 12, 2023 Blog General PAI/Announcements Partnership on AI Welcomes Five New Partner Organizations, Expanding Global Reach Blog General PAI/Announcements Partnership on AI Appoints Apple’s AI Research Director as Board Chair PAI Staff Oct 04, 2023 Blog General PAI/Announcements PAI Welcomes Diverse Cohort of Partners to Synthetic Media Framework PAI Staff Sep 26, 2023 Blog General PAI/Other UNGA 78 – AI Governance Requires Global Action Rebecca Finlay Sep 18, 2023 OUR WORK RESOURCES EVENTS ABOUT US PARTNERS © 2023 Partnership on AI | All Rights Reserved Transparency and Governance Privacy Policy
