McGill welcomes DeepMind Fellows
2020
https://giving.mcgill.ca/all-stories/mcgill-welcomes-deepmind-fellows

Make an impact Make an impact Discover McGill’s vision for our third century, and read about the many ways philanthropy is helping our students, researchers and professors make the world a better place.
Explore by Big Idea Opportunities that open doors Research that changes lives Innovation that drives progress Shaping future-ready students Sustainability and the New Vic Best in the West The McGill Students and Scholars at Risk Fund Faculties, Schools and Units Agricultural & Environmental Sciences Arts Continuing Studies Dental Medicine and Oral Health Sciences Education Engineering Law Library Desautels Faculty of Management Medicine and Health Sciences Schulich School of Music Science Athletics & Recreation The Neuro Faculties, Schools and Units Ways to give Ways to give Make your mark on our third century by supporting students, giving to your faculty or funding an innovative project.
Give today Online By phone By mail Wire transfers Securities McGill staff payroll deductions Gift matching options Give tomorrow Leave a bequest Life insurance Retirement plan assets Charitable gift annuities Charitable remainder trusts More ways to give International giving Corporations Foundations Gifts in kind Endowed giving McGill Crowdfunding McGill24 McGill Student Emergency Support Fund The McGill Emergency COVID-19 Research Fund Get involved Get involved Be part of McGill's global community. Read our award-winning magazine, The McGill News, attend exciting events featuring top researchers, take advantage of networking and mentorship opportunities and more.
[] Attend an event Volunteer Third Century Celebrations Made by McGill Stories Submit your Made by McGill Story Webcasts About About Meet the people behind Made by McGill: the Campaign for Our Third Century [] Campaign leadership The McGill Fund Legacy Societies Search Home All stories McGill welcomes DeepMind Fellows McGill welcomes DeepMind Fellows DeepMind Technologies is providing support for graduate student fellowships intended to bring diversity to the field of AI and machine learning McGill University graduate students studying and conducting research in the field of artificial intelligence, including machine learning and related subjects, will benefit from a generous gift from UK-based DeepMind, a world leader in artificial intelligence research and its application to the real world.
The gift will fund three two-year Master’s fellowships and two five-year PhD fellowships, with a strong preference given to students from groups normally underrepresented in the field of artificial intelligence, including students who identify as female and/or of minority ethnic or Indigenous background.
In addition to a stipend support, Fellowship recipients will receive an equipment budget to launch their studies and an annual travel grant covering attendance at an academic conference. Recipients will also be matched with a DeepMind mentor and will have opportunities to participate in DeepMind programs and other industry events.
“This visionary graduate fellowship program sponsored by DeepMind signals to all that AI has to be for all,” says Bruce Lennox, Dean of the Faculty of Science and Tomlinson Professor of Chemistry. “There is no doubt that inclusive participation at the research and development stages of AI is key to ensuring that AI is indeed for all. McGill is very excited to partner with DeepMind in this regard.” “The Fellowship’s goal of fostering diversity in this field is very much in line with McGill’s broader commitment to challenge systemic barriers to participation in university life,” adds Professor Laura Nilson, Associate Dean (Graduate Education) in McGill’s Faculty of Science and Chair of the Faculty of Science Committee on Equity and Climate for Working and Learning.
“It is a great honor to be a recipient of the DeepMind scholarship,” says Oumar Kaba, who is currently pursuing a Master’s degree under the supervision of Professor Siamak Ravanbakhsh in the School of Computer Science at McGill. “This invaluable support will be used to perform research at the crossroads of machine learning and physics. The goal will be to design algorithms that can efficiently learn and predict material properties, thus helping to discover new ones. Conference travel funds and mentorship offered by DeepMind will also allow me to acquire greater research expertise in the field.” Obum Ekeke, DeepMind’s educational and university partnerships lead, says, “We’re incredibly excited to welcome McGill’s DeepMind fellows into our graduate fellowship program. Bringing new voices and different perspectives into the field of AI is vital – and our program is designed not only to remove some of the financial barriers that prevent access, but to provide a support network and mentorship to help students thrive. Montreal has a dynamic AI research ecosystem, and we can’t wait to see how the DeepMind fellows contribute towards it.” The DeepMind Fellowships reflect McGill’s and Montreal’s reputation as a global centre of excellence in the field of artificial intelligence research and development. McGill’s School of Computer Science counts world-leading researchers in machine learning among its faculty members, including Joelle Pineau, Doina Precup, and Gregory Dudek. McGill is also a partner in Mila (the Montreal Institute for Learning Algorithms), a globally recognized research centre in artificial intelligence that brings together around 500 researchers specializing in the field of deep learning.
Professors Precup and Pineau, together with colleagues Prakash Panangaden and Jackie Cheung, co-direct McGill’s Reasoning and Learning Laboratory , based at Mila and home to 80-plus graduate students with research interests spanning reinforcement learning and computational linguistics. As Director of DeepMind’s Montreal lab , Precup is just one of many examples of McGill computer scientists leading the way in connecting research to companies that are advancing the social and commercial applications of artificial intelligence. Precup is also notable for her commitment to fostering inclusion and diversity through her involvement in AI4Good , a program expressly aimed at getting more women working with artificial intelligence and machine learning.
McGill is delighted to welcome the DeepMind Fellows, one each at the MSc and PhD level, who commenced their studies in the School of Computer Science in the Fall 2020 term. Applicants to graduate programs in the School of Computer Science will automatically be considered for the remaining two MSc Fellowships and one PhD Fellowship, for studies that will begin in Fall 2021.
Philanthropic gifts, like this gift from DeepMind Technologies, contribute to Made by McGill: the Campaign for Our Third Century , the University’s ambitious $2-billion fundraising campaign to support its bold aspirations for research, discovery and learning.
Related articles {{ article.title }} Contact Contact Us 514.398.5000 1.800.567.5175 University Advancement 1430 Peel Street Montreal, QC, H3A 3T3 Get Directions Giving to McGill Make an Impact Ways To Give About Explore Opportunities Research Innovation Future-ready Faculties, Schools and Units More from McGill Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn McGill Alumni Get involved
