MSc in Artificial Intelligence | Faculty of Engineering | Imperial College London
2020
https://www.imperial.ac.uk/computing/prospective-students/courses/pg/mai

Imperial College London Imperial College London Latest News Imperial launches its biggest ever scholarship programme for Indian scientists New £28m Centre to forge the next generation of AI digital healthcare innovators Research with AMD to optimise computer hardware for AI Main Navigation Study Close Study overview Courses Top Links Search our courses Explore subject areas Chat to our students Chat to our graduates Request information Continuing professional development Executive education Adult education classes Admissions Top Links How to apply Fees and funding Accommodation Student visas and immigration Events, tasters and talks Visit us Undergraduate Open Days Summer schools Virtual tour Help centre Find answers to frequently asked questions about studying at Imperial International students Learn more about what Imperial has to offer students from around the world Student life Discover more about our entrepreneurial community, and life in London Research & Innovation Close Research and Innovation Research support At a glance Support for staff Support for partners and business ICT research computing support About Imperial research At a glance A-Z all research groups Our research culture Research Excellence Framework (REF) Global Institutes Centres of Excellence Networks of Excellence Funding opportunities Impact case studies Read case studies about Imperial research that has made a difference Research news The latest research news from across the College Enterprise Learn how we support entrepreneurship and find research-driven solutions Be Inspired Close Be Inspired Take part Top links Schools Outreach What's on at Imperial Staff and student volunteering Engage online Top links Imperial news Imperial Magazine Imperial College Podcast Societal engagement The Great Exhibition Road Festival Imperial Lates Social media directory Imperial Stories The very best features and opinion from the Imperial community Student stories Find out about life on campus from our team of student bloggers Imperial Today Subscribe to our daily newsletter and receive the best stories from Imperial direct to your inbox About Close About Our leadership and strategy Overview College Strategy 2020-2025 Academic Strategy College governance League tables Global Imperial Our people and values At a glance President Provost Our values and behaviours Recognising our people Alumni stories Equality diversity and inclusion Our faculties and departments Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Medicine Faculty of Natural Sciences Imperial College Business School Our campuses Explore our London locations Leading the world Imperial is a world top ten university with a global reputation Imperial Zero Pollution Our vision is to realise a sustainable, zero pollution future News What's on News Give A-Z Close Faculties and departments Multidisciplinary networks, centres and institutes Research groups People finder Administration and support services Information for Close Prospective students Current students Alumni Staff Jobs at Imperial Partners and business Media Donors Parents Conference organisers Department of Computing Section Navigation Close Department of Computing Overview About Getting here Our values Our facilities Useful contacts Equality and Diversity Equality, Diversity and Culture Committee Women in Computing Athena SWAN Resources Vacancies News and events Health and safety Qualified first aiders Theft Students Welcome Information Awards and honours People Staff intranet Academic staff Welcome to new academics Teaching fellows Research staff Administrative staff CSG Recent changes New users Students Lab regulations Staff and PhDs Services Guides Remote Access Facilities Loans Lab Workstations Theatres Help desk Policies Activities CSG Systems Activities Information Systems Activities Honorary staff Emeritus staff Alumnus Research Analysis and Verification Events Artificial Intelligence Data Science Programming Languages Security Software Engineering Systems Theory and Algorithms Visual Computing Research groups listed alphabetically Prospective students Welcome Undergraduate courses BEng/MEng Computing BEng/MEng Joint Mathematics and Computer Science Postgraduate courses MSc Computing MSc Advanced Computing MSc in Artificial Intelligence MSc Specialist Degrees MSc in Computing (Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning) MSc in Computing (Management and Finance) MSc in Computing (Security and Reliability) MSc in Computing (Software Engineering) MSc in Computing (Visual Computing and Robotics) Integrated MRes/PhD Degrees MRes Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning PhD FAQs Scholarships HiPEDS Centre for Doctoral Training PhD success stories PhD application guidelines AI4Health Centre for Doctoral Training DeepMind scholarships Open days and taster courses Scholarships and Bursaries Current students Undergraduate Computing: degree and course information Undergraduate degrees UG handbook Undergraduate JMC: degree and course information JMC undergraduate degrees UG handbook Postgraduate degrees and course information PG handbook PhD information PhD diary Facewall PhD 1st Year - Cohort 2020 / 2021 PhD Matters Policies and forms Milestones guidance notes FAQs The team Casual work Student welfare Exams & Mitigating Circumstances DoC student hub Scholarships and Bursaries Outreach and Engagement Outreach news and events Public Lecture Series Computing in Schools Beyond the Classroom Girls in Computing Bring your child to work day Industry Recruit our Students Industrial Placements & Internships Undergraduate Placements MSc AI Internships Corporate Partnership Programme Industrial Advisory Board Membership Terms of reference Applications of Computing in Industry Prizes and sponsorship Consultancy Collaborations CSG Recent changes New users Students Lab regulations Staff and PhDs Services Guides Remote Access Facilities Loans Lab Workstations Theatres Help desk Policies Activities CSG Systems Activities Information Systems Activities Home Faculty of Engineering Departments, institutes and centres Department of Computing Prospective students Courses Postgraduate courses MSc in Artificial Intelligence MSc in Artificial Intelligence "fake-h3">More Information How to apply For further enquiries about the MSc in Artificial Intelligence, email: doc-mscadmissions@imperial.ac.uk The MSc Artificial Intelligence is a taught postgraduate course aimed at graduates in disciplines with a large mathematics component. These include, but are not limited to: mathematics; physics; some types of engineering; or mathematical economics. To apply, it is not necessary to have studied computer science previously.
The programme includes specialised, intensive training in programming and AI, with a wide choice of elective modules, a group project and a large individual project. There are opportunities to do both the group and individual projects with leading companies working on applications of AI.
The course will enable graduates to acquire the mathematical skills for understanding and implementing modern statistical machine learning methods, to master the logical foundations of AI, to become well-versed in a variety of current AI and machine learning techniques and develop insight into problems involved in their application, to develop the ability to evaluate the effectiveness of particular implementations, to develop the ability to deal with real-world data and scenarios, and to apply and adjust techniques to realistic applications. Through an intensive module on Python programming with a focus on AI applications, and the use of Python in other modules on machine learning, the degree will also enable students to graduate as skilled AI programmers.
If you have further questions regarding the degree which are not answered here or elsewhere on the website, please contact the admissions team for the MSc in Artificial Intelligence at doc-mscadmissions@imperial.ac.uk.
Graduate destinations The MSc Artificial Intelligence prepares you for both a career in industry, and a PhD in AI and machine learning.
Our graduates have moved into a wide variety of positions in industry—whether in London's vibrant AI and ML economy, or further afield. MSc Artificial Intelligence students have gone on to work at companies or institutions such as Amazon, Google, Wayve, the Alan Turing Institute, Huawei, InstaDeep, the UK government—as well as joining AI-focused startups in areas such autonomous driving, AI in healthcare, AI in finance, computer vision, AI in space, applied reinforcement learning. MSc AI students have also founded their own successful startups, attracting funding through YCombinator and CreatorFund. The introduction of our internship programme to the MSc Artificial Intelligence—see below for more about this—will also gives those students following it a wealth of industrial experience while on the MSc itself.
The degree is also a suitable preparation for PhD studies.
 Previous MSc Artificial Intelligence students have progressed to a PhD at world-leading universities, including Imperial College, Cambridge, Oxford, UCL, LSE, and Columbia. The combination of in-depth training in fundamental methods of modern AI and machine learning, acquired in the various taught modules, with the possibility of an individual research project with world-leading academics, offers rigorous training in AI as a scientific discipline.
Artificial Intelligence in the Department of Computing The Department of Computing at Imperial College London has active research groups in Artificial Intelligence , Data Science , and Visual Computing.
 Many other groups and members of our research staff also work on theory, methods and applications of artificial intelligence and machine learning, and there are many collaborations with other departments at Imperial, as well as with industry.
We also house dedicated research centres, including the Dyson Robotics Lab , the Data Science Institute , the Centre for Integrative Systems Biology and Bioinformatics , the Hamlyn Centre for Medical Image Computing and Robotics , and more. Also, see the Imperial AI network for coordinated AI activity and collaboration throughout the college.
Graduates of the department with a focus on AI have gone on to work in the AI sections of such leading companies as DeepMind, Facebook, Google, and Twitter; many also progress to PhD research at Imperial and elsewhere. A graduate of the department recently had an AI company he co-founded valued at $1 billion , and two other graduates sold their AI startup to Twitter for $150 million.
Throughout the year, leading companies visit the department to give presentations on the Applications of Computing in Industry.
 Many of these are on AI, and are a great opportunity to learn about the relevance and application of what you are studying, and speak directly with people working on industrial applications. We also have dedicated extracurricular tutorials on Machine Learning from guest lecturers, and a seminar series on Applications of AI which has included talks on subjects ranging from state-of-the combinations of machine learning with symbolic AI, to the ethical implications of using AI to extend human cognition.
Applying Applicants for this degree must possess a degree in mathematics, physics, or branches of engineering, economics or other disciplines with a substantial mathematics content. See MSc AI detailed entry requirements for more details.
Applications for October 2024 entry are open; the deadline is 31st July, 2024.
 However, please be advised that we reserve the right to close applications before this date if sufficient offers have been made. We therefore strongly recommend applying sooner rather than later.
You can apply for the MSc in Artificial Intelligence here.
Degree structure The MSc in Artificial Intelligence consists of six compulsory modules (inculding the individual project or internship) and five chosen modules. For the chosen modules, students select at least four from the list of selective modules, at most one from the list of optional modules, summing to five in total. The group project mostly runs in the spring term; the individual project or internship runs over the summer.
Individual project or internship From mid-May to mid-September, you work on the Individual Project. This gives the opportunity to work on a larger, in-depth project—putting into practice the knowledge, programming techniques, and other skills that have been taught throughout the degree.
The Individual Project can be done in two ways, either: as an individual research project, based at Imperial College; or as an internship, based in industry or at a research institution (including Imperial).
In the first case, (1), supervision is led by an academic in the Department of Computing, or by a member of staff in another department at Imperial College. There may be significant industrial involvement, and these projects can range from embracing applications of AI and machine learning in industry, to cutting-edge research, whether theoretical or more practically applied. You work closely with experienced researchers, on scientifically and industrially important problems.
In the second case, (2), the internship is supervised by the industrial partner or research institution. In order to secure an internship, students must pass through screening held by the internship supervisor. You are based within the company or research institution. These internships can be research-focused, or devoted to applications of existing and recent techniques in AI and machine learning. The company you work with can be in a wide variety of spaces—bringing AI to healthcare, finance, engineering, etc., and using techniques in vision, NLP, deep learning, reinforcement learning, on real-world data and problems.
The internship is an excellent way of getting in-depth industrial experience as part of your degree. It is a new feature of our MSc in Artificial Intelligence—one which is being enthusiastically welcomed by our existing industrial partners, by industrial partners who have a history of employing our graduates, and by new start-ups in AI eager to work with our students.
Module list Please note that the following list of modules offered may be subject to change. Click on a module name to be taken to a detailed syllabus for the module.
Scholarships Scholarships for MSc degrees in the department can be searched for using the Imperial Scholarships Search Tool.
DeepMind scholarships The department is the recipient of four generous MSc scholarships from DeepMind , available to those taking up an offer of a place on the MSc in AI (as well as on the MSc Computing (AI+ML) and the MRes in AI and ML ). Two scholarships are for students whose fee-status is home ; and two are for overseas students.
The scholarships cover: full payment of tuition fees; a stipend for living expenses of £21,241; an equipment grant of £1,700; a travel grant of £2,200 for attendance at conferences. In addition, the recipients of the overseas scholarships may qualify for a relocation allowance to help offset the costs of moving to the UK for their studies.
DeepMind scholars also receive invaluable guidance from personal mentors within DeepMind, and attend educational and career events organised by DeepMind. Within the Department of Computing, we also put current DeepMind scholars in touch with the network of previous recipients.
To apply, a candidate must hold an offer for admission on a relevant degree by 31 st May 2024.
 Eligible candidates are the contacted automatically and given an application form. For more details see our page on the DeepMind scholarships.
Women in Computing scholarship The department has available one scholarship for a home-fees candidate identifying as female, who will study a one-year MSc degree. To apply, a candidate must hold an offer for admission on one of our MSc degrees by 31 st May 2024.
The total value of the award is £32,785. For further details, please use the Imperial Scholarships Search Tool.
Student profiles Student Profiles "There are so many options over different areas in the field that I can personalise my degree to exactly what I am the most interested in." "The lecturers are very good at relating their research and the module which they are teaching to the real world." "I really recommend the degree. Imperial focuses on both theoretical and practical aspects. I can be prepared both for further research degrees and for industry." "The MSc in AI undoubtedly gives its graduates a solid foundation on which to build a career in industry or academia." "The group project was an incredible opportunity to work as a team with an external start-up, and learn how to design and build efficient, production level code." "The cohort was very diverse, with people from all around the world with all kinds of backgrounds, and it created a really nice environment." "AI is quite unique in having very deep theoretical foundations as well as tremendous industrial applications...the MSc in AI does a very good job at letting you experience both." "I got to present a paper based on the work I did as part of my individual project, at a conference in South Korea. It was an incredible experience!" "I really enjoyed taking a deep dive into the more mathematical side of machine learning during my individual project. And the social aspect of the MSc is fantastic!" "It felt like I was part of something really special. With amazing support from the department I was able to grow as a researcher." "I really appreciate the skillset and opportunities the MSc AI has given me. I couldn’t have imagined myself working at the job I now have a year ago!" Prospective students Welcome Undergraduate courses BEng/MEng Computing BEng/MEng Joint Mathematics and Computer Science Postgraduate courses MSc Computing MSc Advanced Computing MSc in Artificial Intelligence MSc Specialist Degrees MSc in Computing (Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning) MSc in Computing (Management and Finance) MSc in Computing (Security and Reliability) MSc in Computing (Software Engineering) MSc in Computing (Visual Computing and Robotics) Integrated MRes/PhD Degrees MRes Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning PhD FAQs Scholarships HiPEDS Centre for Doctoral Training PhD success stories PhD application guidelines AI4Health Centre for Doctoral Training DeepMind scholarships Open days and taster courses Scholarships and Bursaries Useful links FAQs How to apply Tuition fees Scholarships Enquiries about MSc programmes Admissions Office Tel: (+44) 20 7594 8303 Email: doc-mscadmissions@imperial.ac.uk Contact & Links Section Information Faculty of Engineering Department of Computing Imperial College London South Kensington Campus London SW7 2AZ Get in touch Useful contacts UG admissions enquiries MSc admissions enquiries PhD admissions enquiries Quick links Job opportunities Recruit our students Outreach Computing Support Group (CSG) Follow Useful Links Information for Prospective students Alumni Jobs Partners and business Media Donors Parents Conference organisers Top links Visit Imperial Outlook web access Contact ICT Service Desk Library Blackboard Move Imperial Students Imperial students Imperial College Union Student Hub Careers Service Imperial Mobile Graduation Term dates Staff Staff main page ICIS HR procedures Pay and pensions Research support New staff information Imperial partners Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust Imperial College Academic Health Science Centre Imperial College Health Partners Imperial Consultants A-Z Faculties, departments and institutes Research groups Administration and support services People finder College Information Imperial College London Address South Kensington Campus London SW7 2AZ , UK tel: +44 (0)20 7589 5111 Campuses & maps Follow Imperial Site Information Sitemap Accessibility Modern slavery statement Privacy notice Use of cookies Report incorrect content © 2023 Imperial College London Log in
