Researchers propose AI system that reverse-engineers black box apps | VentureBeat
2020
https://venturebeat.com/2020/06/23/researchers-propose-ai-that-reverse-engineers-black-box-apps

Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Researchers propose AI system that reverse-engineers black box apps Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn VentureBeat presents: AI Unleashed - An exclusive executive event for enterprise data leaders. Network and learn with industry peers.
Learn More A preprint paper published by researchers at DeepMind and the CISPA Helmholtz Center for Information Security describes an AI system capable of reverse-engineering the black box functions of programs written in educational programming language Karel. Given access only to the inputs and outputs (I/Os) of an application, they claim the system — dubbed IReEn — can iteratively improve a copy of the target application until it becomes functionally equivalent to the original.
Reverse-engineering might carry a nefarious connotation in some circles, but it isn’t without legitimate applications. For instance, it can help recover software if the source code was lost or aid in the detection and neutralization of malware. Although several machine learning-driven reverse-engineering techniques have been proposed, most can’t recover functional and human-interpretable forms of programs. But IReEn can.
IReEn obtains a set of I/Os by querying the target program’s functions using random inputs drawn from a distribution. A module called a neural program synthesizer — conditioned on the obtained I/Os — outputs clone programs and uses a scoring system to rate the clones in terms of closeness to the original. If the best candidate doesn’t cover all of the I/Os, the system selects a subset of I/Os that weren’t covered by the best candidate and conditions them on a program synthesizer for the next iteration.
Above: Revealing the functionality of a black box function using only input-output interactions.
To evaluate their approach, the coauthors considered Karel, which uses structures that make reverse-engineering applications programmed in it a challenge. Using an open source data set containing over 1.1 million pairs of I/Os and programs, they trained the neural synthesizer, reserving a subset of data for validation and testing.
Event AI Unleashed An exclusive invite-only evening of insights and networking, designed for senior enterprise executives overseeing data stacks and strategies.
The team reports that when applied to 100 I/Os that weren’t included in the training data, IReEn generated functionally equivalent programs with a 78% success rate. “In contrast to prior work, we propose an iterative neural program synthesis scheme [that] is the first to tackle the task of reverse-engineering in a black box setting without any access to privileged information,” they wrote. “Despite the weaker assumptions, and hence the possibility to use our method broadly in other fields, we show that in many cases it is possible to reverse-engineer functionally equivalent programs on the Karel data set benchmark.” The work partly builds on Nvidia’s GameGAN, which can synthesize a functional version of a game without an underlying engine. Given sequences of frames from a game and the corresponding actions taken by agents (i.e., players) within the game, the system visually imitates the game using a trained AI model.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat's Data and AI Insider's Event Join us for key insights and networking with leaders in the Data and AI spaces at VB's exclusive after hours event this November! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
