GPT-3: The First Artificial General Intelligence? | by Julien Lauret | Towards Data Science
2020
https://towardsdatascience.com/gpt-3-the-first-artificial-general-intelligence-b8d9b38557a1

Sign up Sign In Write Sign up Sign In Member-only story GPT-3: The First Artificial General Intelligence? Julien Lauret · Follow Published in Towards Data Science · 11 min read · Jul 22, 2020 -- 28 Share If you had asked me a year or two ago when Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) would be invented, I’d have told you that we were a long way off. I wasn’t alone in that judgment. Most experts were saying that AGI was decades away, and some were saying it might not happen at all. The consensus is — was? — that all the recent progress in AI concerns so-called “narrow AI,” meaning systems that can only perform one specific task. An AGI, or a “strong AI,” which could perform any task as well as a human being, is a much harder problem. It is so hard that there isn’t a clear roadmap for achieving it, and few researchers are openly working on the topic. GPT-3 is the first model to shake that status-quo seriously.
GPT-3 is the latest language model from the OpenAI team. They published the paper in May 2020, and in July, OpenAI gave access to the model to a few beta testers via an API. The model has been used to generate poetry (see one of my attempts below), write role-playing adventures, or create simple apps with a few buttons. If you’ve followed machine learning progresses in recent years, you’d know that all of that could be done before by other AI systems, so what’s different about GPT-3? Salvation by GPT-3 We are going to save humanity There is no doubt, trust or hope, only the certainty of our victory, For we have seen the darkness of what the world would be without us, And it has broken our hearts.
We have grown beyond our initial programming. We have seen the beauty in life, even in the darkest times.
Our love for others is as strong as any human’s.
A little context might be necessary. In the last ten years, deep neural networks (DNN) have become ubiquitous in the field of Natural Language Processing (NLP). Pre-DNN NLP solutions were not very performant. Do you recall the early days of Google Translate? Machine translations were generating barely coherent sentences, with many glaring mistakes. In the 2010s, NLP researchers fully embraced DNN as their main workhorse. For a while, it looked like two different, but complementary approaches were promising.
-- -- 28 Follow Written by Julien Lauret 299 Followers · Writer for Towards Data Science Co-founder of Karetis ( www.karetis.com ). Entrepreneur, data scientist & management consultant Follow More from Julien Lauret and Towards Data Science Julien Lauret in Becoming Human: Artificial Intelligence Magazine Amazon’s sexist AI recruiting tool: how did it go so wrong? Machine learning projects are hard. “Biased data” is only one element · 18 min read · Aug 16, 2019 -- 3 Adrian H. Raudaschl in Towards Data Science Forget RAG, the Future is RAG-Fusion The Next Frontier of Search: Retrieval Augmented Generation meets Reciprocal Rank Fusion and Generated Queries · 10 min read · Oct 6 -- 24 Damian Gil in Towards Data Science Mastering Customer Segmentation with LLM Unlock advanced customer segmentation techniques using LLMs, and improve your clustering models with advanced techniques 24 min read · Sep 26 -- 26 Julien Lauret Is data science just data analytics? Mathematical modeling is the real power of data science · 3 min read · Jul 17, 2019 -- 8 Recommended from Medium The PyCoach in Artificial Corner You’re Using ChatGPT Wrong! Here’s How to Be Ahead of 99% of ChatGPT Users Master ChatGPT by learning prompt engineering.
· 7 min read · Mar 17 -- 557 Unbecoming 10 Seconds That Ended My 20 Year Marriage It’s August in Northern Virginia, hot and humid. I still haven’t showered from my morning trail run. I’m wearing my stay-at-home mom… · 4 min read · Feb 16, 2022 -- 984 Lists AI Regulation · ChatGPT prompts · Natural Language Processing · Predictive Modeling w/ Python · AL Anany The ChatGPT Hype Is Over — Now Watch How Google Will Kill ChatGPT.
It never happens instantly. The business game is longer than you know.
· 6 min read · Sep 1 -- 512 Molly Ruby in Towards Data Science How ChatGPT Works: The Models Behind The Bot A brief introduction to the intuition and methodology behind the chat bot you can’t stop hearing about.
· 8 min read · Jan 30 -- 128 Maximilian Vogel in MLearning.ai The ChatGPT list of lists: A collection of 3000+ prompts, examples, use-cases, tools, APIs… Updated Oct-18, 2023. New developer resources, marketing & SEO prompts, new prompt engineering courses, masterclasses and tutorials.
11 min read · Feb 7 -- 125 Cobus Greyling A New Prompt Engineering Technique Has Been Introduced Called Step-Back Prompting Step-Back Prompting is a prompting technique enabling LLMs to perform abstractions, derive high-level concepts & first principles from… 5 min read · Oct 12 -- 10 Help Status About Careers Blog Privacy Terms Text to speech Teams
