ITER Headquarters
2015
https://www.iter.org/construction/hq

Jobs 7 Tenders 78 Faqs Visits Contact us ITER Directory Subscribe Donate.
gsc-placeholder-input{outline: none; background: url("http://www.google.com/cse/static/en/google_custom_search_watermark.gif") 0% 50% no-repeat rgb(255, 255, 255);padding: 1px 6px;border: 1px solid #DDD;width: 99%; font-size:13px;height: 30px;margin: 0px 5px;width: 100%!important;} .gsc-search-button{display:none} .gsc-control-cse{background-color:transparent; border-color:transparent} Subscribe options Select your newsletters: ITER Newsline Keep in touch with ITER through our main news feed, sent weekly.
ITER Magazine - French only Learn more about the ITER Project by subscribing to this quarterly online magazine that is geared toward the general public.
ITER Open Doors Day - Notifications Stay informed about the ITER Open Doors sessions and be among the first to subscribe to the next event.
Please enter your email address: @ Your email address will only be used for the purpose of sending you the ITER Organization publication(s) that you have requested.
ITER Organization will not transfer your email address or other personal data to any other party or use it for commercial purposes.
If you change your mind, you can easily unsubscribe by clicking the unsubscribe option at the bottom of an email you've received from ITER Organization.
For more information, see our Privacy policy.
') < 0){ $(this).remove(); } }) $("div.sub").each(function(){ $(this).appendTo("#menu-content"); if ($(this).find('li.active').length > 0){ var activeSubMenu = $(this).index() + 1; $("li.menu-cat[data-id='" + activeSubMenu + "']").addClass('active'); } else if( $(document).find('div#menu h2 a.active').length > 0 ) { } }) var activeIndex = $('li.menu-cat.active').index(); if(activeIndex >= 0){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == activeIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } //hide menu on overlay click $('div.black-overlay').click(function(){ $('li.menu-cat.selected').trigger( "click" ); }); function menuBehaviour() { var isiPhone = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("iphone"); var isiPad = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipad"); var isiPod = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipod"); var isAndroid = /android/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isBlackberry = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("BlackBerry"); var isOpera = /Opera/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isIE = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("IEMobile"); //for Tablet if(isiPhone > -1 || isiPad > -1 || isiPod > -1 || isAndroid || isBlackberry > -1 || isOpera || isIE > 1){ $('li.menu-cat span.glyphicon').click(function(event) { //remove href link event.preventDefault(); currentMenu = $(this).parent().parent().parent(); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); }else{ $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseenter', function() { currentMenu = $(this); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); } } menuBehaviour(); $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseleave', function() { clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); currentMenu = null; }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); }); function closeMenu() { MenuToggle( $('.menu-cat.selected') ); clearTimeout( timeoutBlackOverlay ); $("div.black-overlay").hide(); clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); } function MenuToggle( obj ) { currentMenu = obj; var id = $(obj).data('id'); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).find('div.column-select').css({'opacity':'0'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).removeClass('last'); if (id != $(this).data('id')){ $(this).removeClass('selected'); $(this).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); $("div.sub.selected").addClass('last'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).hide().removeClass('selected'); } }) if($(obj).hasClass('active')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('active'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } if ($(obj).hasClass('selected')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 0}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle().removeClass('selected'); $("div.sub").removeClass('last'); $("div.black-overlay").fadeTo(200, 0); setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").hide(); }, 200 ); $(obj).removeClass('selected'); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); if (!$(obj).hasClass('active')){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').removeAttr('style'); } }); } } else { //check last selected height var lastSize = $('div.sub.last').height(); // if last has height if (lastSize > 0 ){ var currentHeight = $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(lastSize) $("div.submenu-content-" + id).show().animate({height : currentHeight + 30 + 'px'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } //else we toggle the menu else{ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } timeoutBlackOverlay = setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").show().fadeTo(200, 0.6); }, 200 ); $(obj).addClass('selected'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-down').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-up'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('selected'); } } About About An introduction to the project's goals, history, organization, location...
In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History IAEA ITER Newsletter The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Faqs Project Milestones Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine One million components, ten million parts — find out more about the ITER Tokamak and its systems.
What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science Bringing a star to Earth? Explore the science of ITER.
What is fusion? Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Iter goals Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Follow the construction of the world's largest tokamak in southern France.
Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Specialized tooling Tokamak Assembly Metrology Plant assembly Commissioning News & Media News & Media The latest photos, videos and publications from the ITER Organization.
All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events ITER Podcast Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives Top Tenders ITER Directory Donate About About In a few lines In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History History IAEA ITER Newsletter Faqs Project Milestones The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Legal resources Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science What is fusion? Making it work Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Iter goals Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Projects underway Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Tokamak Assembly Plant assembly Specialized tooling Metrology Commissioning News & Media News & Media All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives ITER Podcast Toggle navigation Toggle navigation Francais English Jobs Tenders Faqs Contact us directory Subscribe Donate Intranet Donate...
Construction Construction Archives ITER Headquarters A winter scene over Headquarters The ITER Headquarters seen from the construction platform with, as a backdrop, the town of Manosque and the Alps.
02 February 2015 Download Extension completed The 35-metre extension to the Headquarters building is completed in September 2014. Following its official handover to the ITER Organization (on 30 September) work can now begin to carry out the necessary arrangements for move-in (furnishings, IT connections).
17 September 2014 Download Continuity As contruction progress has now reached level 5, the ITER Headquarters extension now stands in perfect continuity with the main building.
02 June 2014 Download Headquarters extension rises Workers progress in April on the fourth storey of the ITER Headquarters extension. When completed this summer, an extra 350 desks will be available to staff or contractors.
10 April 2014 Download Going up! From the roof of the main building, it's easy to follow the progress of the Headquarters extension in March.
19 March 2014 Download Structure begins to rise Work is underway on the first floor of the extension to Headquarters. At a rate of approximately one storey every three weeks, the five-storey structure will be framed out by late May.
24 February 2014 Download Phase one of the Headquarters extension successfully completed We can't see them yet, but soon the first-storey walls of the Headquarters extension will be visible from the platform. The concrete basemat for the 3,500 m² extension was poured on 30 January, marking the end of the foundation work phase. Work has begun on the walls; the complete exterior shell should be in place in June.
12 February 2014 Download Coffee anyone? As the sun rises over the ITER site, the first employees arrive at their offices.
11 December 2013 Download Regular buses Regular shuttle buses run between ITER Headquarters and two other ITER office buildings ... with increased frequency at lunch time.
02 October 2013 Download From the worksite The top three storeys of ITER Headquarters have a view of construction works.
19 September 2013 Download The ITER Organization's new Headquarters building The ITER Headquarters, photographed in May between two storm clouds. The northwest-facing cafeteria occupies the lower level of the building.
29 May 2013 Download The unfinished side Contrary to the other side of the building, this end was left unfinished. In 2013, work will begin to extend the building by 35 metres for an additional 350 desk spaces.
07 February 2013 Download Welcome! At the entrance of the new ITER Headquarters building, flags from the seven ITER Members and the yellow flag of the ITER Organization unfurl in the early February wind.
04 February 2013 Download United colours of ITER On a brisk day in February, the ITER Member flags stand proudly against a backdrop of snow-covered mountains.
04 February 2013 Download Offices with a view Across from the Assembly Building worksite, where reinforcement and concrete pouring continues, the top three stories of the new ITER Headquarters building rise over the platform. Photo: F4E 01 February 2013 Download A building and its surroundings The ITER Headquarters building was conceived as a kind of 'visual pedestal' for the Tokamak Building. Seen from this angle, it is also a 'visual pedestal' for the distant mountains ...
18 December 2012 Download Looking toward the village of Vinon-sur-Verdon The northern corner of the ITER site. The seat of the ITER Organization—the Headquarters building—sits below the elevated, 42-hectare platform where the scientific facilities will be installed. © Sylvain Couturier 03 December 2012 Download The Council Chamber In the completed Headquarters building, the ITER Council meets for the first time in the fifth-floor Council Chamber.
28 November 2012 Download Last touches to the Council Chamber Before the Eleventh ITER Council convenes from 28-29 November 2012, the Council Chamber undergoes a last round of waxing, window washing and equipment testing.
26 November 2012 Download Filled to capacity On 23 November the ITER community gathers to celebrate cuisine from Europe on the occasion of the third ITER Member Day. For the first time, it's standing room only in the ITER cafeteria ...
23 November 2012 Download They are ready to welcome you! An average of 90 people visit the ITER Headquarters every day. First stop: the Access Control building, pictured.
15 October 2012 Download Sunrise on the platform From the fifth floor of the building, it's possible to take in the entire 42-hectare construction site.
08 October 2012 Download Hurry! There's just about one month left to complete the Council Room, before the ITER Council invests the space to convene its eleventh meeting on 28-29 November 2012.
05 October 2012 Download Through the revolving doors Sun pours into the lobby of the Headquarters building on Moving Day in October.
03 October 2012 Download "A view needs to be framed" Looking out of one of the north-facing offices. According to architect Laurent Bonhomme, who paired with colleague Rudy Ricciotti from Marseille to design the office building, as with a painting or a photograph, "a view needs to be framed"—especially in an office setting where concentration is important.
03 October 2012 Download Headquarters: completed The undulating northwestern facade of the ITER Headquarters building faces the road.
01 October 2012 Download Take a tunnel to work? From the second floor of the completed Headquarters building, scientists will have access to the Control Room of the ITER Tokamak.
21 September 2012 Download One day, these patios will have trees Glass predominates throughout the structure, on both the interior and exterior walls.
21 September 2012 Download Please, take a seat Furniture, carpeting and audiovisual equipment complete the 500-seat amphitheatre in September.
21 September 2012 Download Framing out the last office spaces As the dog days of summer come to an end, the ITER Headquarters building prepares for Moving Day, scheduled in October.
20 August 2012 Download An undulating veil Above the ITER cafeteria, workers install the last vertical slats on the top four storeys of the building.
26 June 2012 Download Northwest corner One hundred and eighty metres long, the Headquarters building is situated on the northwest corner of the platform. The building will be ready for delivery in two months.
26 June 2012 Download Site Access Staff will badge in here, at the Site Access Control Building, before following the path to ITER Headquarters.
26 June 2012 Download Curves seen from above From the roof, looking down toward the cafeteria terrace, it's easy to see how the architectural slats are mounted all along the building's northwest face.
21 June 2012 Download Natural light for the inner corridors Light shafts are foreseen all along the 180 metres of the new ITER office building—some 3-storey (pictured), some 5-storey.
21 June 2012 Download slideshow_homepage Following the installation of the last glass windows in November, the stage is set for the immense vertical slats that will adorn the northern facade of ITER Headquarters. Over 3,000 of these slats will create an external veil 14 m high and 180 m long.
21 June 2012 Download Cafeteria nearly finished The Headquarters cafeteria is situated at the back of the building, with a terrace overlooking a wooded parcel.
21 June 2012 Download 5 floors, 180 m long The near-completed ITER Headquarters building is visible from the road between St-Paul-lez-Durance and Vinon-sur-Verson.
21 June 2012 Download The 500-seat amphitheatre Only the furniture is missing in the 500-seat ITER amphitheatre. Staff will enter on the ground floor, through doors (upper right) situated just a step away from the lobby entrance.
21 June 2012 Download Meetings galore The amphitheatre in the new building will provide ITER staff with the opportunity to assemble in one room—something that had been impossible in the temporary offices the team has occupied since 2006.
21 June 2012 Download On a clear day, we see the mountains Looking over the near-completed Headquarters building toward the pre-Alps.
13 June 2012 Download Nestled up against the platform The ITER Headquarters building sits below the platform; some of the upper offices will look out directly onto the ITER laboratory.
13 June 2012 Download Ventilation now installed On the roof of the Headquarters building, rooftop ventilation and air conditioning units have been installed. Photo: AIF AM 30 May 2012 Download A space for discussion and decision-making On the fifth floor of building, workers install an acoustic ceiling over the oval ITER Council boardroom. Photo: AIF AM 30 May 2012 Download May in Provence Spring blossoms in Provence and work on access roads continues in the vicinity of the Headquarters building. Photo: Engage-AP 20 April 2012 Download Heigh ho, heigh ho ...
Thirty-three metres in length, this glass-walled walkway gives access to subterranean technical rooms and the ITER Tokamak control centre. Photo: Engage-AP 20 April 2012 Download Looking north ITER Headquarters seen from the top of a worksite crane on a sunny day in April. Photo: Engage-AP 20 April 2012 Download Just a few months from completion Late April: most of the work is happening on the inside now. Photo: Engage-AP 20 April 2012 Download On the inside The superstructure of the Headquarters building was finished in September 2011. Since this date, workers have been equipping the interior of the building.
10 April 2012 Download A tunnel to the control tower Looking down onto the walkway, then tunnel, that leads to the area on the ITER platform where the Control Room will be located in a few years.
24 March 2012 Download Eating out on a sunny day The ITER canteen on the ground floor will have its own outside terrace.
24 March 2012 Download Installation of vertical sunshades Vertical sunshades are positioned by crane and bolted into place along the northwest façade of the ITER Headquarters building. When the work is finished, the shades will create 14-metre-tall vertical lines. Photo: AIF.AM 24 March 2012 Download What will it be like cohabitating with the architectural slats? The vertical slats seen from the inside ...
23 March 2012 Download Filtering the Provençal sun, without blocking the view The vertical slats seen from the outside ...
23 March 2012 Download Rain or shine Windows and a glass ceiling have been installed on the footbridge that links the ITER offices to the Control Room on the platform.
14 March 2012 Download Fifth-floor view Looking north from an office on the top floor.
14 March 2012 Download Inside and out On the inside, workers are installing some 12,000 square metres of dividing walls to shape out the offices. On the outside, work continues on the "exterior veil." 14 March 2012 Download Late in the day The late-day sun illuminates the western facade of the ITER Headquarters.
14 March 2012 Download Northwest facade Looking up from the basement level of the Headquarters building toward the ITER canteen and four storeys of office space. Photo: AIF.AM 08 March 2012 Download Work is completed on annex building Located next to the ITER Headquarters, this building will house the ITER Medical Centre and research facility access checkpoint. Photo: AIF.AM 08 March 2012 Download Piece by piece On the northern corner of the Headquarters building, these "balconies" have been installed to receive 14-metre-tall vertical slats. Photo: AIF 06 March 2012 Download Spectacular progress The top three levels of ITER Headquarters have front-row seats to the work on the platform. Beginning next fall, the building will be occupied.
29 February 2012 Download Footbridge to the experiments This 33-metre metal footbridge will link ITER Headquarters to the scientific facilities on the platform, by way of an underground tunnel. Photo: AIF.AM 03 February 2012 Download By "rack" of six One 3.2-metre "rack" of 6 sunshades is readied for installation. Four racks like these complete one vertical assembly. Photo: AIF.AM 03 February 2012 Download Installation of vertical sunshades Vertical sunshades are positioned by crane and bolted into place along the northwest façade of the ITER Headquarters building. When the work is finished, the shades will create 14-metre-tall vertical lines. Photo: AIF.AM 03 February 2012 Download Restaurant inside, deck outside The terrace adjoining the ITER canteen is equipped with a wooden deck. Photo: AIF.AM 03 February 2012 Download The permanent ITER Headquarters building Across a quiet platform, work continues on the inside of the future ITER Headquarters.
01 February 2012 Download Seen from across the platform On the top left of the building, work begins to install the exterior venetian blinds that will protect the offices from Provence's 300 days of strong sunlight per year.
12 January 2012 Download Rooms with a view The top floors of the Headquarters building will have an unparalleled view of the 39 buildings and facilities that make up the ITER fusion laboratory.
12 January 2012 Download Enter from this side The future entrance to the ITER Headquarters on the northeast corner of the building.
12 January 2012 Download The eleventh ITER Council will be held here in November 2012 The architect's vision of the future Council Room located on the top floor of ITER Headquarters. ©Ricciotti 12 January 2012 Download Under the round ceiling of the Council Room On the top floor of the building, a circular Council Room for 80 is under construction.
12 January 2012 Download The ITER canteen Workers install the metal structure that will support a terrace accessible from the canteen.
12 January 2012 Download In a few months The architect's drawing of the ITER Headquarters entrance hall. ©Ricciotti 22 December 2011 Download A cafeteria catering to 1,000 Occupying the first floor of the building, the cafeteria spans its entire width from east to west. The doors visible in this photograph exit to an outside terrace and stairs down to a grassy area.
22 December 2011 Download Ground floor entry hall The bright and spacious entry hall of the ITER Headquarters building faces the platform. Elevators heading from this area to the upper floors have already been installed.
22 December 2011 Download From the top floor looking down Far below, the Site Access Control Building (not yet equipped with its "green" roof).
22 December 2011 Download Hot water, anyone? Seventy-five metres of solar panels installed on the roof will furnish the cafeteria's needs in hot water.
22 December 2011 Download Light for the interior of the building The installation of bay windows in the six interior patios was completed in December.
22 December 2011 Download Door frames and interior fittings Door frames are installed for the platform-facing offices. Next step: interior walls. ©VPaul 06 December 2011 Download An eagle-eye view From the upper floors of the ITER Headquarters, the view over the platform is spectacular.
01 December 2011 Download The seat of the ITER project ITER Headquarters, seen through the atypical openings of the Site Access Control Building.
29 November 2011 Download You'll make your first stop at ITER here The 550m² Site Access Control Building will be equipped with a "green" roof to improve climate control.
29 November 2011 Download Interior fittings underway Looking out from one of the large, open-plan offices on the west side of the building.
29 November 2011 Download Through the tunnel A 33-metre-long metal footbridge will connect Headquarters to this tunnel in the platform, which will lead to the ITER Control Room.
29 November 2011 Download Work completed on the windows The last windows are installed along the curved south-eastern face of the building in December 2011.
29 November 2011 Download As the crow flies The Provençal village of Corbières (approximately 10 kilometres distant) seen from over the top of the Headquarters building.
15 November 2011 Download Work on the roof Blocs of insulation are installed on the roof of the ITER Headquarters building, some 20 metres above ground level. Photo: AIF 14 November 2011 Download Exterior blinds Along the eastern face of the building, the offices will be protected from the sun by exterior venetian blinds. Photo: AIF 05 November 2011 Download Snow visible from the platform Fresh October snow in the pre-Alps is visible from the ITER platform on a clear day. Approximately 250 km beyond the ITER Headquarters are the Mont Pelvoux (far left, 3,946 m) and the Barre des Écrins (left, 4,102 m).
20 October 2011 Download Sliding 500 kilos 'effortlessly' into place The 500-kilo glass window blocks are slid into position one after another following a patented installation system developed for the ITER Headquarters project. Up to 50 frames can be slid into place per day. Photo: AIF 12 October 2011 Download Spacious The architect's drawing helps us to imagine the Headquarters amphitheatre in one year's time. ©Ricciotti 11 October 2011 Download Meetings galore The amphitheatre, with its large bay window, will hold up to 500 people. Photo: AIF 11 October 2011 Download Looking through the glass Natural light predominates on the upper floors of the ITER Headquarters.
19 September 2011 Download Frame completed Work on the top floor of the ITER Headquarters nears completion in September 2011. The building will have a ground level plus five floors—a total of six levels in all.
19 September 2011 Download Facing the platform Seen from the sky, the offices on the southeast side of the ITER Headquarters building look toward the platform. Photo: Altivue/ITER Organization 14 September 2011 Download Designed by local architects The ITER Headquarters was designed by local architects Rudy Ricciotti and Laurent Bonhomme, in association with SNC-Lavalin and Cap-Ingelec. Construction began one year ago in October 2010. Photo: Altivue/ITER Organization 14 September 2011 Download Seen from the north The future ITER Headquarters, the Site Access Control Building (in the foreground) and the Medical Centre and research facility access building (behind the Headquarters) are seen from the north. Photo: Altivue/ITER Organization 14 September 2011 Download Headquarters now visible from the platform ITER Headquarters emerges from behind the Tokamak Pit, as work begins on the last storey of the building. Photo: F4E 11 August 2011 Download The ITER Medical Centre Close to the ITER Headquarters, this building will house the ITER Medical Centre and research facility access checkpoint. Photo: AIF July 2011 08 August 2011 Download The ITER Site Access Control Building The interesting shapes of the ITER Site Access Control Building seen from the south side. The architectural motifs resemble those of the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur International School situated in Manosque, conceived by the same architect. Photo: AIF 08 August 2011 Download Light and shapes and shadow The ITER Site Access Control Building from within. Photo: AIF 08 August 2011 Download One floor to go Standing on the fourth storey rooftop where work is about to begin on the last level of the ITER Headquarters. Photo: AIF 08 August 2011 Download Atriums for the future Headquarters building Two- to three-storey interior patios, planted with vegetation, will generate ventilation and let natural light into the ITER Headquarters. Photo: AIF 08 August 2011 Download Large bay windows The wide corridors and large bay windows of the second storey of ITER Headquarters, looking toward the parking lot. Photo: AIF 08 August 2011 Download A large boat? The ITER Headquarters, seen from the northeast, could almost look like a large boat. Photo: AIF 08 August 2011 Download Progress! Four storeys are now framed out and work begins on the fifth and last. Photo: AIF 08 August 2011 Download Shaping the concrete floor Portable framework tables are used to accelerate the pouring of concrete floor on the third level of the ITER Headquarters. Twenty-four of these wooden framework tables are placed side by side, allowing nearly 200 square metres of floor space to be poured every day. Photo: AIF 27 June 2011 Download On its way The shell of the ITER Headquarters—walls, floor, roof—is forecast to be completed in summer 2011. Photo: AIF 24 May 2011 Download Occupying the smallest "footprint" in the landscape The long, tall ITER Headquarters building was conceived by the architects to occupy a limited amount of ground space, leaving most of the wooded parcel ... wooded. Photo: AIF 24 May 2011 Download Visible progress Work on the ITER Headquarters progresses in May 2011. Photo: AIF 24 May 2011 Download Future amphitheatre The 500-person amphitheatre will be partly integrated under the building. Photo: AIF 24 May 2011 Download Peeping in Peeping into the future Site Access Control Building in April 2011. Photo: AIF 17 May 2011 Download Asymmetric openings The first walls and asymmetric openings of the Site Access Control Building.
17 May 2011 Download Free-form concrete Architectonic concrete is used to give structural strength to the Site Access Control Building, whose creative geometric openings are airy and aesthetic. Photo: AIF 16 May 2011 Download The Site Access Control Building Located near the ITER Headquarters the Site Access Control Building, equipped with a 50-person conference room, will be accessible by the public. Photo: AIF 15 May 2011 Download Ultra high performance fibrous concrete The Headquarters worksite in May 2011. For thin constructions, ultra high performance fibrous concrete is used. Incorporating steel fibres, this self-compacting concrete has exceptional durability and extremely high compression resistance: between 130 and 250 MPa (Mega Pascal) in normal conditions. The high resistance is accompanied by a very high density and almost zero permeability of water, oxygen or chloride ion diffusion. Photo: AIF 12 May 2011 Download Tower cranes A 60-metre crane and a 42-metre crane hard at work on the walls of the future ITER Headquarters in May 2011. Photo: AIF 11 May 2011 Download 26 different "formulas" Twenty-six different types of concrete will be used for the construction of the ITER Headquarters—26 different "formulas" depending final use (posts, beams, floors, external walls ...) and taking into account the different resistance levels, colours, plasticity, setting speeds, and aggregate size. Photo: AIF 11 May 2011 Download The southeast facade faces the platform To help regulate the temperature inside the building, the southeast facade will be equipped with Venetian blinds to adjust the amount of incoming light room by room. Photo: AIF 05 May 2011 Download ITER's window to the project Facing the main entrance to the ITER site, the ITER Headquarters building will be the window to the ITER project for the world. Photo: Altivue/AIF 01 April 2011 Download The walls of ITER Headquarters emerge The shell of the ITER Headquarters will require 700 tons of steel and approximately 10 000 m3 of concrete. Photo: AIF 10 March 2011 Download Steel reinforcement Part of the 700 tons of steel required to reinforce the concrete poured for the ITER Headquarters. Photo: AIF 10 March 2011 Download Six acres of wooded land The Headquarters building is situated below the ITER platform on six acres of wooded land to the northeast. Photo: AIF 10 March 2011 Download Workforce increasing 40 people were involved in the construction of the first stage of the ITER Headquarters (shell). This number will progressively increase to 220 between April and September 2011. Photo: AIF 10 March 2011 Download The weather helps! Clement weather allows work on the ITER Headquarters to progress rapidly. Photo: AIF 10 March 2011 Download Shaped like the wings of a bird The wing-shaped ITER Headquarters emerges against the backdrop of southern France. Photo: AIF 10 March 2011 Download Taking shape Workers position pre-formed walls on the second floor of the ITER Headquarters. Photo: AIF 10 March 2011 Download Moving up, floor by floor Work advances in March 2011 on the future ITER Headquarters. Photo: AIF 10 March 2011 Download The future ITER Headquarters In addition to the 20,500 square-metre ITER Headquarters, a small building is planned to welcome the public and a second to manage site access and house medical services. Photo: AIF 13 December 2010 Download 180 metres in length The 180 metre-long, five-storey ITER Headquarters will provide office space for about 500 employees, a cafeteria, an amphitheatre with 500 seats, and a boardroom. Photo: AIF 09 December 2010 Download Heavy works The construction of the ITER Headquarters is financed by the European Domestic Agency, F4E, and France as Host country. Photo: AIF 05 December 2010 Download Footbridge to the Control Room A footbridge will link the first floor of the Headquarters to the ITER Control Room which will be located one level below the project construction platform. The thirty-metre-long footbridge will become a tunnel when it reaches the platform, providing direct pedestrian access to the research facilities. Photo: Altivue/AIF 01 December 2010 Download Work on the first floor begins Work begins on the first floor of the ITER Headquarters building in October 2010 and progresses quickly at the rate of twelve linear metres per day. Photo: AIF 15 October 2010 Download Foundation work for the ITER Headquarters Work on the foundations of the ITER Headquarters building is launched in October 2010. The tall building will be solidly anchored five metres deep in the ground. Photo: AIF 02 October 2010 Download ITER Headquarters will be situated here, close to—but down from—the ITER platform Just past the trees, nestled up against the bend in the ITER platform, a patch of land has been cleared for the construction of the permanent ITER Headquarters. Photo: Altivue/AIF 15 September 2010 Download Architect's view #5 An artist's view of the future ITER Headquarters. Sanitary water for the building will be heated by approximately 80 square metres of solar panels. Photo: Ricciotti Download Architect's view #4 Work begins in September 2010 on the future ITER Headquarters, which will be situated on a six-hectare wooded parcel to the west of the ITER platform. Photo: Ricciotti Download Architect's view #3 "Undulating vertical slats." This is the way the architect describes the most prominent visual feature of the Headquarters building. These sunshades will provide protection from the sun on the northwest facade of the building and reduce the need for cooling within. Made of highly resistant fibre concrete, the 3,104 sunshades will also provide structural strength. Photo: Ricciotti Download Architect's View #2 The underground auditorium of the ITER Headquarters will have a "green roof"—a natural way to regulate the temperature in the building. Photo: Ricciotti Download Architect's view #1 Two- to three-storey interior patios—spaced evenly along the central walkways of the building and planted with vegetation—will generate ventilation, let in natural light, and provide a convivial setting for common areas. Photo: Ricciotti Download Click for full screen 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 ' + currentmenu.text() + ' Construction Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR ITER Headquarters ITER Headquarters The ITER Headquarters building was completed in August 2012 and was extended by 35 metres two years later.
Construction period: 2 years (August 2010-August 2012, plus extension completed in 2014) Surface: 20,500m² (plus 3,500m² extension) Length: 180 metres (plus 35 m extension) Height: 20 metres Storeys: A basement and five storeys (6 levels) Capacity: office space for about 800 people Rudy Ricciotti, architect / Laurent Bonhomme, architect / SNC-Lavalin / Cap-Ingelec An architect revisits his creation FOR THE PUBLIC Jobs About ITER FAQs Photos Visits Education Donate/Sponsor FOR THE PRESS All News Welcome Facts and Figures ITER Milestones Press Releases Fusion Glossary FOR SCIENTISTS ITPA Fusion Links Conferences How to Publish ITER Technical Reports ITER International School FOR INDUSTRY Procurement Intellectual Property Foreign Workers in France Business Events INTRANET Intranet Sitemap Terms of use Privacy Policy © 2023, ITER Organization ITER Assembly Live Event - 28 JULY The event will be live-streamed, in three parts (all times listed are French local times): 10:00 a.m. — Tour of the ITER worksite and large components on site 11:00 a.m. — Ceremony, including statements by world leaders 12:30 a.m. (or following the ceremony) — Press conference
