The ITER cryoplant
2021
https://www.iter.org/construction/Cryoplant

Jobs 7 Tenders 78 Faqs Visits Contact us ITER Directory Subscribe Donate.
gsc-placeholder-input{outline: none; background: url("http://www.google.com/cse/static/en/google_custom_search_watermark.gif") 0% 50% no-repeat rgb(255, 255, 255);padding: 1px 6px;border: 1px solid #DDD;width: 99%; font-size:13px;height: 30px;margin: 0px 5px;width: 100%!important;} .gsc-search-button{display:none} .gsc-control-cse{background-color:transparent; border-color:transparent} Subscribe options Select your newsletters: ITER Newsline Keep in touch with ITER through our main news feed, sent weekly.
ITER Magazine - French only Learn more about the ITER Project by subscribing to this quarterly online magazine that is geared toward the general public.
ITER Open Doors Day - Notifications Stay informed about the ITER Open Doors sessions and be among the first to subscribe to the next event.
Please enter your email address: @ Your email address will only be used for the purpose of sending you the ITER Organization publication(s) that you have requested.
ITER Organization will not transfer your email address or other personal data to any other party or use it for commercial purposes.
If you change your mind, you can easily unsubscribe by clicking the unsubscribe option at the bottom of an email you've received from ITER Organization.
For more information, see our Privacy policy.
') < 0){ $(this).remove(); } }) $("div.sub").each(function(){ $(this).appendTo("#menu-content"); if ($(this).find('li.active').length > 0){ var activeSubMenu = $(this).index() + 1; $("li.menu-cat[data-id='" + activeSubMenu + "']").addClass('active'); } else if( $(document).find('div#menu h2 a.active').length > 0 ) { } }) var activeIndex = $('li.menu-cat.active').index(); if(activeIndex >= 0){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == activeIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } //hide menu on overlay click $('div.black-overlay').click(function(){ $('li.menu-cat.selected').trigger( "click" ); }); function menuBehaviour() { var isiPhone = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("iphone"); var isiPad = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipad"); var isiPod = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipod"); var isAndroid = /android/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isBlackberry = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("BlackBerry"); var isOpera = /Opera/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isIE = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("IEMobile"); //for Tablet if(isiPhone > -1 || isiPad > -1 || isiPod > -1 || isAndroid || isBlackberry > -1 || isOpera || isIE > 1){ $('li.menu-cat span.glyphicon').click(function(event) { //remove href link event.preventDefault(); currentMenu = $(this).parent().parent().parent(); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); }else{ $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseenter', function() { currentMenu = $(this); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); } } menuBehaviour(); $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseleave', function() { clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); currentMenu = null; }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); }); function closeMenu() { MenuToggle( $('.menu-cat.selected') ); clearTimeout( timeoutBlackOverlay ); $("div.black-overlay").hide(); clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); } function MenuToggle( obj ) { currentMenu = obj; var id = $(obj).data('id'); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).find('div.column-select').css({'opacity':'0'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).removeClass('last'); if (id != $(this).data('id')){ $(this).removeClass('selected'); $(this).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); $("div.sub.selected").addClass('last'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).hide().removeClass('selected'); } }) if($(obj).hasClass('active')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('active'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } if ($(obj).hasClass('selected')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 0}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle().removeClass('selected'); $("div.sub").removeClass('last'); $("div.black-overlay").fadeTo(200, 0); setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").hide(); }, 200 ); $(obj).removeClass('selected'); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); if (!$(obj).hasClass('active')){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').removeAttr('style'); } }); } } else { //check last selected height var lastSize = $('div.sub.last').height(); // if last has height if (lastSize > 0 ){ var currentHeight = $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(lastSize) $("div.submenu-content-" + id).show().animate({height : currentHeight + 30 + 'px'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } //else we toggle the menu else{ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } timeoutBlackOverlay = setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").show().fadeTo(200, 0.6); }, 200 ); $(obj).addClass('selected'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-down').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-up'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('selected'); } } About About An introduction to the project's goals, history, organization, location...
In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History IAEA ITER Newsletter The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Faqs Project Milestones Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine One million components, ten million parts — find out more about the ITER Tokamak and its systems.
What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science Bringing a star to Earth? Explore the science of ITER.
What is fusion? Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Iter goals Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Follow the construction of the world's largest tokamak in southern France.
Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Specialized tooling Tokamak Assembly Metrology Plant assembly Commissioning News & Media News & Media The latest photos, videos and publications from the ITER Organization.
All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events ITER Podcast Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives Top Tenders ITER Directory Donate About About In a few lines In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History History IAEA ITER Newsletter Faqs Project Milestones The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Legal resources Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science What is fusion? Making it work Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Iter goals Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Projects underway Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Tokamak Assembly Plant assembly Specialized tooling Metrology Commissioning News & Media News & Media All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives ITER Podcast Toggle navigation Toggle navigation Francais English Jobs Tenders Faqs Contact us directory Subscribe Donate Intranet Donate...
Construction Construction Archives Cryoplant Good progress in the cryoplant Installation work in the cryoplant is nearing completion, and commissioning activities are scheduled to begin in July 2021. Follow all progress in the plant assembly pages of the ITER website (https://www.iter.org/construction/SystemsPlantAssembly). © Christian Luenig (www.arbeitsblende.de) 25 March 2021 Download Two important roles The cryogenic termination cold box has two roles: collecting and distributing cryogenic fluids produced in the cryoplant to the Tokamak Building, and warming up the fluids when it's time to bring clients back to room temperature for maintenance. Pictured: David Grillot, the head of ITER Cryogenic System Section.
12 November 2020 Download The cryogenic termination cold box Procured by ITER India and manufactured by the Swiss company Linde Kryotechnik AG, the cryogenic termination cold box is a massive structure packed with pipes, valves, electrical feedthroughs and pneumatic actuators. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 12 November 2020 Download Inside the plant ITER's cryoplant has been designed to operate over a wide range of ITER plasma scenarios, from short plasma pulses (a few hundred seconds) with 700 MW of fusion power, to long plasma pulses of 3,000 seconds with 365 MW of fusion power. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 03 November 2020 Download Cryoplant in October The ITER cryoplant comprises 5,400 m² of covered buildings plus a large exterior area for the storage of helium and nitrogen. An overhead bridge (not yet constructed) will connect the cryoplant to the Tokamak Complex. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 09 October 2020 Download One of the last giants One of the last large components enters the ITER cryoplant: a 56-tonne helium dryer.
02 June 2020 Download As dry as 'He' can get Cold boxes do not like water. Before it is processed, gaseous helium needs to be perfectly dry to prevent damage. This crucial operation is the task of a 56-tonne ''helium dryer'' that was installed in the cryoplant on 27 May.
27 May 2020 Download Inside the cold factory As large as two football pitches, the ITER cryoplant provides cooling fluids to 10,000 tonnes of superconducting magnets, eight massive cryopumps, and thousands of square metres of thermal shielding.
23 September 2019 Download Compressor row A total of 18 helium compressors and associated inlet filters and electrical motors are aligned on two parallel platforms inside the cryoplant.
23 September 2019 Download Compression station In the liquid helium plant compression station, a narrow corridor separates the two parallel oil removal system skids. Oil is used in the helium compression process but needs to be removed entirely by a set of filters, separators, pumps etc.
23 September 2019 Download The octopus Evocative of a monster bug or a creature from the depths, this multistage centrifugal compressor pressurizes nitrogen before liquefying it. Liquid nitrogen at 77 K (minus 196 °C) contributes to the cooling process of helium.
23 September 2019 Download Three cold boxes plus one Serving the ITER cold clients requires three "cold boxes" plus a fourth to connect them (the "termination cold box," to the left). The 21-metre components —each weighing about 137 tonnes with internal systems—provide an insulated environment for heat exchangers, cryogenic adsorbers, liquid helium and liquid nitrogen phase separators.
23 September 2019 Download A 4.5 MW electrical engine Packing the power of approximately 60 electric vehicles, this 4.5 MW motor feeds the multistage centrifugal nitrogen compressor.
23 September 2019 Download Seven kilometres of pipes Approximately seven kilometres of pipes run through the installation, carrying helium, nitrogen and cooling water for the compressors and other equipment. Cooling water circulation in the cryoplant is in the range of 2,500 cubic metres per hour—the equivalent of an Olympic pool every 30 minutes.
23 September 2019 Download Across the road Cryogens produced in the cryoplant (left) will travel by overhead bridge to the Tokamak Complex (concrete building at right).
10 May 2019 Download Outside the cryoplant This complex set of hand valves and local readings of pressure, temperature and flow is part of the cooling loop that maintains the temperature inside the cryoplant's quench tanks at 100 K.
01 March 2019 Download Cryolines in production INOXCVA in India is producing about half of the 5 km of cryolines needed for ITER (700 "spools") for the Indian Domestic Agency. Eighty percent have all kinds of angles, bends and turns.
24 October 2018 Download Through the open doors of the cryoplant All machines and equipment for the Cryoplant Building have been delivered and 30% of the material has been installed. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 05 September 2018 Download Flying above Factory equipment, seen by drone in July. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 24 July 2018 Download Not far Outside storage tanks in the cryoplant area. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 24 July 2018 Download Three identical rows Aligned in three rows, each one linked to a helium cold box, the helium compressors installed on tall concrete pads will supply the cold boxes with gaseous helium at 21.8 bars.
17 July 2018 Download Teamwork Close coordination is required of the different teams representing the ITER Organization, the European Domestic Agency, equipment manufacturer Air Liquide, mechanical installation contractors, and ITER's Construction Management-as-Agent.
17 July 2018 Download Nitrogen as a pre-cooler for liquid helium For the nitrogen plant, the first phase of centrifugal compressor installation was achieved this month.
17 July 2018 Download First industrial plant on site The ITER cryoplant used to be a vast echoey chamber with 5,400 m² of interior space divided into two areas; now, it is filled from floor to ceiling with industrial equipment.
17 July 2018 Download Filling up Most of the planned components are now installed in the Compressor Building, drastically reducing the space for circulation.
17 July 2018 Download The world's largest single-platform cryoplant Three parties are sharing responsibility for the plant's procurement: the ITER Organization, responsible for the liquid helium plants; Europe, in charge of the liquid nitrogen plant and auxiliary systems as well as the construction of the cryoplant infrastructure on site; and India, whose contractors are procuring the cryolines and cryodistribution components.
17 July 2018 Download Last job The tall crawler crane (on site since February) has finished its last task—the installation of two quench tanks near the north end of the building. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 April 2018 Download From the air The ITER cryoplant: 5,400 m² of covered space and 2,600 m² of exterior storage. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 April 2018 Download All in a row Seven tall storage tanks have now been installed outside of the cryoplant. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 April 2018 Download Two horizontal tanks installed Two 35-metre quench tanks have been removed from temporary storage and transferred to their exterior bays near the cryoplant. They are designed to hold helium from the magnet system in the case of sudden loss of superconductivity (quench).
23 April 2018 Download On its way This quench tank travels from its storage area to the cryoplant on a self-propelled modular transporter with 18 independently manoeuvrable axles.
23 April 2018 Download Number 4 A fourth tank is installed outside of the cryoplant. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 February 2018 Download Verticality Installed vertically because of space constraints, six identical tanks will store 380 cubic metres of gaseous helium each at a pressure of 22 bars.
21 February 2018 Download Up we go! Seized at both ends by cranes working in tandem, the 20-metre high, 150-tonne steel tank is slowly transitioning to its final position.
21 February 2018 Download Pushing and pulling It takes three men, weighing in with all their strength, to precisely align the openings in the tank's lower rim with the 36 rods anchored deep in the concrete.
21 February 2018 Download All rods in place Less than one hour after the beginning of the lifting operation, the tank is in place. Each rod has passed through its corresponding hole in the lower rim and is ready to be bolted.
21 February 2018 Download Team work Representatives of the ITER Organization, the European Domestic Agency and of all the contractors involved in the operation (Air Liquide, Dufour, Technilevage, Altead, SETIS and IREM) pose in front of the massive component, now bolted to its concrete platform.
21 February 2018 Download Ready to lift This large crawler crane was erected last week near the cryoplant. Beginning on 14 February, it will be used to lift vertical tanks for the storage of liquid and gaseous helium and nitrogen into position.
12 February 2018 Download No sparks A large number of lightening rods have been installed on the roof of the cryoplant.
18 January 2018 Download Tank area ready Beginning in February, teams will begin installing the exterior storage tanks for helium and nitrogen. In the zone pictured, the tanks will be installed vertically.
16 January 2018 Download Crane on its way To install the tanks, a tall crane will be needed. Early February, 40 trucks will deliver the crane components.
16 January 2018 Download Deliveries Equipment is delivered to the Compressor Building in December. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Basemat completed The concrete finishing work for the exterior zone has been completed. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download High storage The concrete platform going up at right will support one of the horizontal storage tanks of the cryoplant. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download 11 containers The cryoplant will require 11 tanks for the storage of liquid and gaseous helium and nitrogen. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Tanks coming Tank installation will begin in early February in this exterior storage area. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download X marks the spot Tank installation begins on 8 February.© Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Two buildings, one roof The 120-metre-long cryoplant is actually two buildings separated by a firewall—the Compressor Building (foreground) and the Cold Box Building. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Skids positionned All 18 helium compressor skids have been positioned on their concrete platforms in the cryoplant's Compressor Building.
17 November 2017 Download Tank storage area A level area and footings have been created for the helium and nitrogen storage tanks outside of the cryoplant. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 26 October 2017 Download Cryoplant project The cryoplant (adjacent to the red-topped building) is all closed up. An interior fire wall separates the building into two spaces. Work is underway on the exterior area for gas storage.
08 October 2017 Download Cladding ending Multiple layers of exterior cladding ensure the cleanest possible interior environment for the cryoplant. The last layer ties the cryoplant into the "look and feel" of the main ITER buildings.
19 September 2017 Download 18 all in a row Work is underway in September on the helium screw compressor skids platforms.
19 September 2017 Download Tanks soon Running along the length of the cryoplant, on the outside, is an exterior area dedicated to the storage of gases and liquids. Work is underway to prepare the foundations and the footholds now. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 29 August 2017 Download Exterior treatment: nearly completed Workers are completing the cladding on the last corner of the cryoplant. Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 29 August 2017 Download Good progress The 5,400 m² cryoplant is now fully framed out, and the first components have been installed. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 22 August 2017 Download Footprints in the sand These circular structures are in place to receive the standing tanks for gaseous and liquid helium and nitrogen. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 21 August 2017 Download Last round On this side of the building, workers are installing the last layer of cladding. Its shiny surface is the architect's "signature" on all the permanent buildings of the scientific facility. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 21 August 2017 Download Before the concrete Anchor structures for the vertical storage tanks are set in place before concrete pouring begins.
17 August 2017 Download Finishing the cladding Workers have started to install the final reflective layer of cladding on the eastern face of the cryoplant.
12 July 2017 Download Concrete support Work underway in the cryoplant to prepare for the arrival of 18 helium screw compressor skids. Each one of the 25-tonne units will be installed on top of its own four-metre-high concrete pad, allowing oil from the compressor to regain the oil separation system through gravity.
12 July 2017 Download Row after row The 18 concrete structures in the ITER Compressor Building are massive pads that will each support one 25-tonne helium compressor skid. What appears as "windows" in the concrete blocks are in fact passages for the dense interconnecting piping.
12 July 2017 Download Compressor Building, when it's chock full In the 3,400 m² available in the Compressor Building, contractors will install 18 oil-flooded screw compressors for the helium plant as well as other helium compressors and compressors for the liquid nitrogen plant.
01 July 2017 Download Cold boxes take their place One of the three helium cold boxes is transported through the open door of the on-site cryoplant.
23 June 2017 Download Celebrating a Council milestone In the presence of ITER Director-General Bernard Bigot and his two deputies, Chief Operating Officer Gyung-Su Lee and Relations Coordinating Officer Eisuke Tada, the team responsible for cold box installation celebrates the respect of an ITER Council milestone that scheduled the "Start of work in the cryoplant" for June 2017.
22 June 2017 Download Temporary tank storage On its way to the cryoplant, the second cold box on its transport trailer passes three tanks (two for gaseous helium and a third, at right, for liquid nitrogen). They too will be transported to the cryoplant for installation in the exterior storage area.
22 June 2017 Download Careful manoevring The multi-wheeled transporter positions the second cold box next to the first. The equipment will now be propped up and the trailer removed.
22 June 2017 Download First components! On 20 June three helium coldboxes were moved from storage at the entrance of the ÏTER site to the Cold Box Building of the ITER cryoplant. This is the first equipment to be installed ... but certainly not the last! 20 June 2017 Download Special anchors On the exterior storage area of the cryoplant, embedded anchors are in place for the helium and nitrogen storage tanks that will be installed vertically. Photo: F4E 20 June 2017 Download Equipment delivered Part of the equipment delivered for the ITER cryoplant, these "warm panels" will be connected to the helium cold boxes 14 June 2017 Download Ready to go! Mid-June, the three helium cold boxes in storage were uncovered and prepared for transport to the cryoplant, where they will be installed.
14 June 2017 Download A 5 400 m² factory The ITER cryoplant has been fully framed out by European contractors. Work is starting now to equip the building. © Engage 14 June 2017 Download Nearly ready for access The building's cladding is nearly finalized and work is underway to pour the ground slab for the exterior storage area (foreground). Later this month, the three helium cold boxes will be transferred from storage for installation inside of the building.
08 June 2017 Download Two buildings under one roof The gap in the cladding permits us to distinguish the Cold Box Building, at left, from the Compressor Building, at right. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 31 May 2017 Download First phase of cladding Late May, the first phase of cladding is nearly complete. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 31 May 2017 Download Closing in The cladding of the cryoplant is going up. In this photo, the work is seen from the inside. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 April 2017 Download Early installation activities will start in June Work is progressing on the ITER cryoplant building. Early access for the first component installation activities is expected in June, with the full building completed in September.
19 April 2017 Download Compressor and cold box rooms From the exterior it will look like one building, but in fact a thick firewall will separate the Cold Box Building (helium plant) from the Compressor Building (helium and nitrogen compressors). A break in the roof structure marks where the firewall will be erected.
19 April 2017 Download Component installation to begin soon Seen from one of the worksite cranes, the cryoplant is taking shape. In late June, the first components will be installed.
13 April 2017 Download Demanding clients Cooling fluids generated in the 45 x 120-metre Cryoplant Building will travel along process lines to the Tokamak Building, where it will be distributed to the different "clients" through a three-kilometre network of cryolines. The ITER magnets will consume 45 percent of cryogenic power followed by the thermal shield (40 percent) and the cryopumps (15 percent). Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 11 April 2017 Download Closing the building in On this side of the 20-metre-tall building, work to install the first layer of aluminium cladding has just begun. Workers are momentarily distracted, though, by the sound of the camera drone ... Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 11 April 2017 Download Cryoplant taking shape Construction of the world's largest concentrated cryoplant is progressing; the installation of the first components is scheduled for June. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 10 April 2017 Download Exterior storage Work is underway to the left of the cryoplant on a 2,600 m² exterior storage area for the tanks that will house gaseous and liquid helium and nitrogen. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 10 April 2017 Download From the sky The two buildings of the cryoplant—the Cold Box Building (left) and the Compressor Building (right)—are separated by a gap in the frame that won't be visible once the building is finished. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 10 April 2017 Download First cladding The first cladding appears on the cryoplant building structure in March. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 March 2017 Download Cold Box Building Process lines carrying cryogens will travel from the Cold Box Building (pictured) to the Tokamak Building over a bridge installed 13 metres above platform level. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 March 2017 Download Cryoplant roof frame The southern portion of the cryoplant, seen from above. A large exterior area for the storage of helium and nitrogen in liquid and gaseous forms will be created to the left. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 March 2017 Download Work in every zone In front of the partially constructed cryoplant, material is stored for the underground networks which are being installed between the buildings. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 March 2017 Download Working toward the start of component installation The western facade of the Cryoplant Building, late March. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 March 2017 Download Cladding! The cryoplant structure is beginning to look like a building as the first level of metal cladding is set into place ...
16 March 2017 Download Cryoplant: progress on the Compressor Building Work advances in February on the basemat, columns and steel structure of the cryoplant Compressor Building. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 February 2017 Download State of cryoplant: February A 5,400 m² building, divided into two sections, will house all of the equipment necessary to deliver the cryogenic power needed at ITER. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 February 2017 Download Measurements underway A common sight on the ITER platform: metrologists. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 January 2017 Download First and secondary structures After the main steel structure of the cryoplant is erected, workers will install a secondary structure to support the building's cladding. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 January 2017 Download One building, two areas The cryoplant building will be divided by a fire wall into two separate spaces. Giant columns for the fire wall are going up now. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 January 2017 Download Factory dimensions The ITER cryoplant will be 20 metres high, 120 metres long and 45 metres in width. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 January 2017 Download Massive columns One of the massive columns that will support the firewall between the two covered areas of the cryoplant. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 January 2017 Download Three zones for the cryoplant The soccer field-size installation comprises 5,400 m² of covered buildings plus a large exterior area (far side) for the storage of helium and nitrogen in liquid and gaseous forms. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 12 January 2017 Download Cryoplant roof frame A photo of progress on the ITER cryoplant, taken in January 2017. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 12 January 2017 Download Structure advances The roof frame is going up for the ITER cryoplant. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 19 December 2016 Download Roof structure for the cryoplant The cryoplant worksite, seen from above. In December, work progresses on the roof structure. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 19 December 2016 Download 8,000 square metres for cryogenics The ITER cryoplant will occupy an 8,000-square-metre area on the ITER platform. Gases and liquids will be stored on the outside, while the building will be divided between the compressor room and the helium plant zone. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 19 December 2016 Download Cryoplant components "en attente" At the entrance to the ITER site, five large elements of the cryoplant are temporarily stored—three coldboxes for the liquid helium plant (in white, procured by the ITER Organization) and two large quench tanks procured by Europe that will store helium in the event of a magnet quench.
15 December 2016 Download Building: the rhythm accelerates The concrete basemat of the cryoplant is disappearing under the first columns and partitions. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 02 December 2016 Download Cranes planned for cryoplant facility maintenance These tall columns are sized to support the weight of the installation's maintenance cranes. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 02 December 2016 Download Significant space for ITER's single-platform cryoplant The cryoplant takes up a 8,000-square-metre zone on the ITER platform. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 02 December 2016 Download Building delivered in 2017 Workers have begun installing the roof structure for the ITER cryoplant. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 02 December 2016 Download End-of-day light End-of-day light on the cryoplant worksite, where teams are working overtime to ready at least part of the facility for component installation activities to begin in the second quarter of 2017.
27 October 2016 Download Giant columns for the Cryoplant Building These massive columns will support the structure of the Cryoplant Building. The worker in orange (on the scaffolding) gives an idea of their size.
08 October 2016 Download Cryoplant Building under construction Cold components are arriving now for the ITER cryoplant. The 5,400 m² building that will house them is under construction on the southeast portion of the platform.
08 October 2016 Download Cryoplant construction: seen from above The building that will house the ITER cryoplant is under construction on the southeast portion of the platform. Its basemat and columns are visible from the air. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 04 October 2016 Download 5,400 m² to house cold boxes, compressors and tanks Columns are going up on the site of the ITER cryoplant. The building will be ready to receive components in 2017. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 04 October 2016 Download Cold boxes: providing insulation for key components Each 4.2 x 21 metre cold box will weigh about 137 tonnes once all internal components are integrated. Three identical helium plants will store and circulate liquid helium (at a temperature of 4 K or minus 269 °C) throughout the installation.
26 September 2016 Download Hundreds of components The different components of the ITER cryoplant are expected to arrive at ITER in 450 shipments. Pictured: the warm panels of the liquid helium cold boxes.
26 September 2016 Download Latest good news on liquid nitrogen plant In a recent milestone, two nitrogen compressors for ITER's liquid nitrogen plant successfully complete factory testing in Europe. Photo: F4E 16 September 2016 Download Compressor fabrication 18 compressors will be required for the operation of the helium refrigerators. In a factory in the northeast of France, near Metz, compressor parts are being assembled on the shop floor.
13 September 2016 Download 4,500 individual components The ITER cryogenic system: 50 cold boxes, 3 kilometres of cryolines, and 4,500 components. Ninety percent of components were delivered in 2016 (pictured: heat recovery skids for the liquid helium plant).
13 September 2016 Download An indoor-outdoor facility to house the cryoplant The site of the ITER cryoplant, under construction in August 2016. Two connected buildings will be complemented by an external storage area. Photo: © LNM/F4E 25 August 2016 Download Cryoplant rises Columns are rising for the ITER cryoplant, now that the underground galleries and the foundations are finished.
20 July 2016 Download The cold house The ITER cryoplant will deliver 75 kW of combined cooling power to the ITER installation. Work is underway now on the building, and before the end of the year most of the equipment will have been delivered to the site.
20 July 2016 Download From above Parallel to the winding facility for poloidal field coils (at right) the construction of the ITER cryoplant is underway. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 11 July 2016 Download Cryoplant, in June 2016 Adjacent to the Assembly Building, work is underway on the ITER cryoplant building.
11 July 2016 Download Tanks will go here Infrastructure works are underway on the westernmost portion of the cryoplant worksite to support the warm and cold storage tanks that will be capable of storing the entire inventory of helium and liquid nitrogen during maintenance periods.
11 July 2016 Download Progress on the ITER cryoplant On the completed foundations, pillar frames are starting to rise.
11 July 2016 Download Liquid nitrogen plant components pass tests Four turbines produced for ITER's liquid nitrogen (LN2) cryogenic plant have successfully passed factory acceptance testing. Photo: F4E 24 May 2016 Download Cryoplant: underground structure completed Work on the foundations and underground structures of the ITER cryoplant is coming to an end. Soon, approximately four dozen 16-metre-high pillars will be erected to support the building's steel structure.
07 April 2016 Download From above Work on the ITER cryoplant is captured from a crane in February 2016. Photo: ENGAGE 16 February 2016 Download The largest concentrated cryogenic system in the world The ITER cryoplant will be capable of providing cooling power at three different temperature levels: 4 K, 50K and 80K. Currently, work is underway on the building's foundations.
04 February 2016 Download Cryoplant technical galleries Work on the technical galleries of the cryoplant is almost completed. The floor slab and steel frame will follow ... in time to deliver the building in 2017.
04 February 2016 Download Cryoplant foundations underway Extensive cryogenic technology will create and maintain low-temperature conditions for the magnet and vacuum pumping systems as well as some diagnostics. On site, work has started on the foundations of the ITER cryoplant. Photo: F4E 01 December 2015 Download Underground galleries Before work begins on the cryoplant itself, workers are creating underground galleries for the transport of electricity/fluids. Photo: F4E 01 December 2015 Download Foundations for the Cryoplant Building In October, site teams began work on the reinforced foundations of the Cryoplant Building. Photo: F4E 20 October 2015 Download First works on Cryoplant Building Excavation has started for the ITER Cryoplant Building near the Assembly Hall. The 121-metre-long, 47-metre-wide and 19-metre-high Cryoplant Building will host one of the world's largest clusters of cryogenic equipment.
14 October 2015 Download Cryoplant preparatory works Excavation works for the ITER cryoplant have ended. The cryoplant will produce the cooling power required for operation and distribute it through a complex system of cryolines and cold boxes. Photo: ENGAGE 28 September 2015 Download Click for full screen 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 ' + currentmenu.text() + ' Construction Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR The ITER cryoplant The ITER cryoplant The ITER cryoplant comprises 5,400 m² of covered buildings plus a large exterior area for the storage of helium and nitrogen.
The LN₂ plant (blue, under the responsibility of Europe) will produce liquid nitrogen at a temperature of minus 196 °C to be used as a ''pre-cooler'' in the LHe plant (yellow, procured by the ITER Organization). Nearly 25 tonnes of liquid helium—at minus 269 °C—will circulate through a five-kilometre network of pipes, pumps and valves procured by India (the first part of the network is shown in green) in order to cool the superconducting magnets, the thermal shield, vacuum cryopumps, and certain diagnostics.
Total area: 8,000 m² Building dimensions: Height 20 m, Length 120 m, Width 45 m Cold Box Building (liquid helium plant): 2,000 m² Compressor Building (compressors, liquid nitrogen plant): 3,400 m² Size of exterior storage area: 2,600 m² LHe total average cooling capacity: 75 kW at 4.5 K LHe liquefaction: 12,300 litres/hour LN₂ total average cooling capacity: 1300 kW at 80 K GN₂ liquefaction: 50 tonnes/day Infrastructure construction: October 2015 - September 2017 (European Domestic Agency Fusion for Energy) Equipment delivery: June 2017 - June 2019 (ITER Organization, Fusion for Energy, ITER India) Equipment installation: 2017 - 2020 (ITER Organization) Start of integrated testing: 2020 Cryolines | Out through the door, in through the roof Cryodistribution | Blowing cold and hot Cryogenics | As dry as He can get Cryolines | Not just any pipes Video | How does the ITER cryoplant work? Cryoplant | A vertical displacement event Along skid row Cold boxes reach home 10,000 tonnes of magnets to cool Coming soon: cryoplant components from all over the world As cold as it gets FOR THE PUBLIC Jobs About ITER FAQs Photos Visits Education Donate/Sponsor FOR THE PRESS All News Welcome Facts and Figures ITER Milestones Press Releases Fusion Glossary FOR SCIENTISTS ITPA Fusion Links Conferences How to Publish ITER Technical Reports ITER International School FOR INDUSTRY Procurement Intellectual Property Foreign Workers in France Business Events INTRANET Intranet Sitemap Terms of use Privacy Policy © 2023, ITER Organization ITER Assembly Live Event - 28 JULY The event will be live-streamed, in three parts (all times listed are French local times): 10:00 a.m. — Tour of the ITER worksite and large components on site 11:00 a.m. — Ceremony, including statements by world leaders 12:30 a.m. (or following the ceremony) — Press conference
