NYU Minds, Brains, and Machines Initiative
2021
https://mbm.cds.nyu.edu

Minds Brains & Machines About Understanding intelligence is one of the greatest scientific quests ever undertaken—a challenge that demands an interdisciplinary approach spanning psychology, neural science, philosophy, linguistics, data science, and artificial intelligence (AI). A focus on computation is at the center of this quest—viewing intelligence, in all of its forms, as a kind of sophisticated and adaptive computational process. But the kind of computation necessary for intelligence remains an open question; despite striking recent progress in AI, today's technologies provide nothing like the general-purpose, flexible intelligence that we have as humans.
We believe that intensifying the dialog between these fields is needed for transformative research on understanding and engineering intelligence, focused on two key questions: How can advances in machine intelligence best advance our understanding of natural (human and animal) intelligence? And how can we best use insights from natural intelligence to develop new, more powerful machine intelligence technologies that more fruitfully interact with us? NYU Minds, Brains, and Machines is a new campus initiative to focus research and educational opportunities around these topics. The project was initiated by FAS Dean Antonio Merlo via a FAS-wide conference about the relationship between human and machine intelligence.
 Current priorities includes a hiring cluster which connects several academics units at NYU including Psychology, the Center for Data Science, the Center for Neural Science, and the Flatiron Institute.
The current directors of the initiative are Brenden Lake and Todd Gureckis.
Minds, Brains, and Machines Colloquium Series The colloquium series showcases some of the most exciting work at the intersection of human and machine intelligence. Lectures will be held in person when possible.
Date Speaker Location Tues, Oct 26, 2021 11am-12:15pm Kelsey Allen (DeepMind) Zoom only Tues, Nov 2, 2021 11am-12:15pm Ishita Dasgupta (DeepMind) Zoom only Mon, Apr 25, 2022 4-5:15pm SueYeon Chung (NYU) 7th Floor Open Space, Center for Data Science/Panopto Thurs, Nov 3, 2022 12:30pm Steven Piantadosi (University of California Berkeley) Zoom only, co-sponsored with the NYU Psychology Cognition and Perception Series ( registration , nyu only) Thurs, Jan 23, 2023 12:30pm Allison Gopnik (University of California Berkeley) Meyer 121 (6 Washington Pl.), co-sponsored with the NYU Psychology Cognition and Perception Series (hybrid: registration , nyu only). Reception at 11:30-12:30 in advance of the talk, Meyer 102.
Thurs, May 11, 2023 12:30pm Linda Smith (Indiana University-Bloomington) Meyer 121 (6 Washington Pl.), co-sponsored with the NYU Psychology Cognition and Perception Series (hybrid: registration , nyu only). Reception at 11:30-12:30 in advance of the talk, Meyer 102.
Monday, May 22, 2023 11am Michael C. Frank (Stanford University) Center for Data Science, 60 5th Ave. 7th floor open space.
Monday, Aug. 7, 2023 12:30pm Kevin Ellis (Cornell university) Center for Data Science, 60 5th Ave. 7th floor open space. Reception at 11:30-12:30 in advance of the talk.
Job Opportunities There are no current open faculty searches but stay tuned! Recently completed cluster hire solicitations: Grace Lindsay - Assistant Professor of Psychology and Data Science SueYeon Chung - Assistant Professor of Neuroscience split between Flatiron Institute and Center for Neural Science The NYU Center for Data Science invites positions annually for the highly prestigious CDS Faculty Fellows position. These positions act somewhat between a post-doc and a faculty position allowing innovative researchers to explore collaborations across multiple NYU units, with Data Science acting as the hub. Several past hirings for these positions have gone to researchers working at the core of Minds, Brains, and Machines.
Current application solicitations are closed but will likely reopen in late fall 2022.
Recent MBM related fellows: Mark Ho - human planning and social cognition, human and machine learning, reinforcement learning Angela Radulescu - reinforcement learning, decision making, attention, virtual reality Key NYU Faculty Here is a convenient listing of a few researchers working in this area along with a brief description of their research interests: Ned Block (Philosophy) - foundations of neuroscience and cognitive science, relationship between perception and cognition Sam Bowman (Linguistics/Center for Data Science) - natural language processing, deep learning David Chalmers (Philosophy) - philosophy of mind (especially consciousness), foundations of cognitive science, philosophy of language Kyunghyun Cho (Computer Science/Center for Data Science) - machine learning, natural language processing, deep learning (also research scientist at Facebook AI in NYC) SueYeon Chung (Center for Neural Science/Flatiron Institute - computational neuroscience, deep learning Ernest Davis (Computer Science) - commonsense understanding in human and artificial intelligence, physical reasoning Moira Dillon (Psychology) - cognitive development, spatial cognition, simulation vs. rule-based reasoning, human and artificial intelligence Rob Fergus (Computer Science) - machine learning and computer vision (also research scientist at Facebook AI in NYC) Todd Gureckis (Psychology) - active/self-directed learning, categorization, decision making, computational cognitive neuroscience, intersection of human/machine learning, crowdsourcing research Laura Gwilliams (Psychology) - cognitive neuroscience, language processing, auditory perception, models of speech comprehension Catherine Hartley (Psychology) - computational models of decision making and learning, developmental cognitive neuroscience David Heeger (Psychology/Center for Neural Science) - computational models of attention, perception, working memory, navigation, motor control Brenden Lake (Psychology/Center for Data Science) - computational cognitive modeling, human and machine learning, concept learning Grace Lindsay (Psychology/Center for Data Science)- computational models of sensory processing, human and machine learning, deep learning Tal Linzen (Linguistics/Center for Data Science) - computational models of human language acquisition and processing; evaluating and improving linguistic generalization in artificial intelligence systems Yann LeCun (Computer Science/Center for Data Science) - machine learning, computer vision, Director of AI research at Facebook in NYC Zhong-Lin Lu (Center for Neural Science/Psychology, Chief Scientist and Associate Provost for Sciences, NYU Shanghai) - computational brain models for perception and cognition, computational and psychophysics studies of perception, attention, perceptual learning, applications of hierarchical Bayesian models in adaptive testing, psychophysics, and brain networks Weiji Ma (Psychology/Center for Neural Science)- computational neuroscience, working memory, decision making, perception, higher cognition, fMRI Marcelo Mattar (Psychology)- reinforcement learning in biological and artificial systems, planning, memory, computational neuroscience, cognitive neuroscience Gary Marcus (Emeritus, Psychology) - cognitive scientist, AI entrepreneur Liina Pylkkänen (Linguistics/Psychology) - neural bases of language, particularly syntatic and semantic processing Bob Rehder (Psychology) - causal learning, categorization, reasoning Mengye Ren (Starting Fall 2022; Computer Science/Center for Data Science) - machine learning, computer vision, few-shot learning, brain & cognitively inspired learning Christina Savin (Center for Neural Science/Center for Data Science) - using tools from machine learning to figure out how learning and memory happen at the level of neural circuits Eero Simoncelli (Center for Neural Science/Center for Data Science)- computer vision, computational approach to visual neuroscience Julian Togelius (CSE, Tandon School of Engineering) - artificial intelligence, evolutionary computation, games as AI testbeds Xiao-Jing Wang (Center for Neural Science/Simons Foundation/NYU Shanghai) - neurobiological principles of executive and cognitive functions Robert J. Glushko Undergraduate Thesis Prize The Glushko Prize for Outstanding Undergraduate Honors Thesis in Minds, Brains, and Machines is awarded annually to an NYU student who has conducted an Honors thesis in computational cognitive science or otherwise at the intersection of human and machine intelligence. Students in the Department of Psychology are eligible to apply if they complete an honors thesis or other independent thesis project.
The winning thesis will be the one demonstrating the greatest academic excellence and creativity using computational methods to inform aspects of intelligent behavior.
Two recipients will receive a monetary prize of $500 and will be recognized at their department’s Undergraduate Honors Ceremony in the Spring. In exceptional circumstances more than two prizes may be awarded in a single year. The Department will invite the winners to present their thesis in the following academic year (at a brown bag series, research lab meeting, etc.).
Students in Center for Data Science, Center for Neural Science, Linguistics, or Psychology who would like their thesis considered for this prize should have their faculty sponsor notify Todd Gureckis (todd.gureckis@nyu.edu) by April 1 of the spring semester (theses completed in the previous fall are still eligible for the spring).
© 2021 NYU CDS 7th floor, 60 5th Ave, New York, NY 10011.
Accessibility Info.
