AI4Society
2021
https://ai4society.ca

<%= fullName %> <%= position %> – <%= department %> <%= fullName %> <%= position %> – <%= department %> Keywords: <%= keywords.join(", ") %> People Initiatives Courses + Programs Events News Contact Us Forum Navigation Menu People Initiatives Courses + Programs Events News Contact Us Forum MAIN PAGE Who we are AI4Society is one of the five Signature Areas of Research and Teaching of the University of Alberta, and is focused on Artificial Intelligence, its applications, and its transformative role for our society.
Over the past 30 years, the University of Alberta has been consistently ranked as one of the top three institutions worldwide for AI research and is a lead player in Canada’s national AI strategy. Building on this recognition, the goal of AI4Society is to stimulate and support interdisciplinary research and teaching initiatives in this field. AI4Society provides continuing institutional leadership by developing and coordinating innovative training programs and representing the institution in new initiatives with public, private, and international partners.
Objectives A mplify the AI-related research activities of the University of Alberta community.
B uild learning capacity in Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, and Data Science.
C ultivate pathways of engagement with the community at large.
225 Researchers – 11 Faculties – 87 International institutes – 45 projects – 65 events Learn more about what we have done for the AI Research Community in 2021 and 2022! 2022 – FEATURED LINKS Geoffrey Rockwell article on The Conversation It is time to take human-AI dialogue seriously again Listen to both season s here All 20 episodes! Read our Annual Report here 2020-2021 Revisit the presentations here all posters, videos, and materials! Visit our website Read publications, news, and more! Smart Buildings Become familiar with the team! People Dr. Eleni Stroulia Director Professor – Computing Science Acting Vice Dean, Faculty of Science director@forum.ai4society.ca Dr. Geoffrey Rockwell Associate Director Professor – Philosophy / Digital Humanities Director – Kule Institute for Advanced Study director@forum.ai4society.ca Dr. Nicolás Arnáez Project Coordinator Assistant Lecturer Faculty of Arts – Music Department ai4s@ualberta.ca Members Find an Expert Look for a researcher that works on artificial intelligence, machine learning, or data science in a specific field.
Simply type a keyword below and you will find all the AI4Society members working in that area! Then click further to be taken to their Forum profile Become a Member Are you a researcher or student at the University of Alberta? Does your current research relate to artificial intelligence, machine learning, or data science? Or, are you interested in developing or participating in a project in this or similar areas? Student Groups Looking to get involved in extracurricular activities that relate to artificial intelligence? Check out these student groups within the University of Alberta.
Undergraduate Artificial Intelligence Society Digital Law & Innovation Society Artificial Intelligence in Medicine Student Society iGeek NeurAlbertaTech Students for Machine Learning in Business Youreka Canada Our Initiatives Collaboratories Interdisciplinary research activities, involving large research teams across campus (from several departments and faculties) addressing “grand challenge” problems and pursuing major federal and international grants.
Academic Programs Teaching and learning initiatives, aimed at developing new materials, workshops, courses, micro-credentials, certificates or programs in the area.
Partnerships Collaborative activities between units within the University of Alberta or with outside organizations, including businesses, government, and non-governmental organizations.
Projects Exploratory projects by a small group of researchers.
Courses and Programs Want to learn more about artificial intelligence, machine learning, or data science? Search our catalogue for courses offered at the University of Alberta in the Fall and Winter semesters.
News and Events Go to our events page to learn about future, ongoing and past events organized by AI4Society AI related events Read our Tweets University of Alberta Timely Opportunities Stay informed about our Grants, Funding Opportunities, Call for Works, and similar activities! The Reading Room September 25, 2020: AI4Society Internal Launch Event Report (a) AI4Society Overview (b) AI Around Campus Screencast September 28, 2020 and 2021: Notes on the Artificial Intelligence for Information Accessibility (AI4IA) conference October 19-23, 2020 : 16th AAAI Conference On Artificial Intelligence And Interactive Digital Entertainment December 9th, 2021 Reimagining Public Spaces and Built Environments in the Post-pandemic World February 18th, 2022 Reverse Expo 2022 Territorial Acknowledgement The University of Alberta, its buildings, labs, and research stations are primarily located on the traditional territory of Cree, Blackfoot, Métis, Nakota Sioux, Iroquois, Dene, and Ojibway/Saulteaux/Anishinaabe nations; lands that are now known as part of Treaties 6, 7, and 8 and homeland of the Métis. The University of Alberta respects the sovereignty, lands, histories, languages, knowledge systems, and cultures of First Nations, Métis and Inuit nations.
Mail Twitter LinkedIn YouTube AI4Society - VPRI Office Address: Faculty of Science, University of Alberta 6-211 CCIS | Edmonton, AB | T6G 2E1 | © 2022 AI4Society Neve | Powered by WordPress
