iPad Pro (2021) vs. MacBook Air M1: Which Is Right for You? | Digital Trends
2021
https://www.digitaltrends.com/computing/macbook-air-vs-ipad-pro

Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Trending Reviews RTX 4070 Review LG Gram Style Review Razer Blade 15 Review Dell XPS 13 2-in-1 Review Mac Mini (M2 Pro) Review Browse by Type Computing News Computing Guides Computing Features Computing Reviews Computing Deals Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Trending Reviews iPhone 14 Review Google Pixel Fold Review Apple Watch Ultra Review Google Pixel Watch Review Samsung Galaxy S23 Review Browse by Type Mobile News Mobile Guides Mobile Features Mobile Reviews Mobile Deals Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Trending Games Fortnite Resident Evil Grand Theft Auto Hogwarts Legacy Star Wars Jedi: Survivor Browse by Type Gaming News Gaming Guides Gaming Features Gaming Reviews Gaming Deals Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Browse by Type Entertainment News Entertainment Guides Entertainment Features Entertainment Reviews Entertainment Deals Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Trending Reviews Sonos Era 100 Review Sonos Era 300 Review LG G3 OLED TV Review Apple TV 4K (2022) Review Roku Plus Series TV Review Browse by Type Audio / Video News Audio / Video Guides Audio / Video Features Audio / Video Reviews Audio / Video Deals Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Trending Guides What is a Smart Lock? What is Google Home? What is Amazon Alexa? Best Outdoor Security Cameras Trending Reviews Roborock S7 Max Ultra Review Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni Review Ring Spotlight Cam Pro review Amazon Echo Show 5 Review Apple HomePod Review Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products iPad Pro (2021) vs. MacBook Air M1: Which Is Right for You? By Caleb Clark and Alex Blake Close After months of speculation and predictions, the new iPad Pros are finally here, and it’s time once again to compare them to Apple’s M1 MacBook Air.
 The new M1 chip blows the competition out of the water. The Air has an impressive battery life, and its fanless design makes it totally silent.
Display and design Performance Portability The app ecosystems Configurations and price The MacBook Air’s power makes it the clear winner And thanks to Big Sur ’s new design language and the M1 chip’s ability to run iPhone apps on MacOS, the MacBook Air is more like the iPad Pro than ever before. On the flip side, the new iPad Pros will come with the same M1 chip found in the MacBook Air and Apple’s other recent Mac products. That means the iPad Pro is more like a computer than ever.
With so much in common, which one will come out on top? Why the MacBook Air is still stuck on the M2 The M3 Max makes the MacBook Pro look like a nearly unbeatable laptop These are the 3 best early Black Friday MacBook deals right now Display and design Image used with permission by copyright holder Ever since its redesign in 2018 , the MacBook Air has only been available in a 13-inch size. That’s no different with Apple’s M1 MacBook Air, which uses the same exterior chassis as the previous model. It’s got the same 2,560 x 1,600 resolution (227 ppi), the same 16:10 aspect ratio, and the same thin (but not ultra-slim) bezels. Its Retina display also features True Tone, which dynamically adjusts the white balance to match the ambient light.
The iPad Pro’s display is a little different. There are two sizes of iPad Pro to choose from — 11 inches and 12.9 inches — with the former having a 2,388 x 1,668 resolution and the latter coming with a 2,732 x 2,048 resolution. The 11-inch iPad Pro has a 264 ppi pixel density, which should make it a little sharper than the MacBook Air, despite having similar screen sizes.
Both the 11-inch and 12.9-inch iPad Pros come with True Tone and have an edge in that their dynamic refresh rate goes all the way up to 120Hz, giving them beautifully smooth scrolling and animations. The MacBook Air is still locked at 60Hz.
The 12.9-inch iPad Pro comes with Apple’s new Liquid Retina XDR display. It’s a mouthful, but the new display has some promising features. Along with its high refresh rate, it also has 10,000 mini-LEDs in the panel. That allows the screen to have 2,500 dimming zones, giving it an impressive 1,000,000:1 contrast ratio and nuanced HDR.
 Apple says it’s on par with the Pro Display XDR, but that remains to be seen. It should be impressive, though.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Both the MacBook Air and the iPad Pro now come with Magic Keyboards. In both cases, that’s a vast improvement over what was on offer before. Previous models of the MacBook Air were stuck with the shallow, failure-prone butterfly keyboard, while the keys on the iPad Pro’s keyboard case were soft, mushy, and unsatisfying. For both devices, this is a major upgrade.
The Magic Keyboard is very different from both previous keyboard designs. As we said in our MacBook Pro 16 review , it’s “the best Mac keyboard ever released,” with large keys, a snappy mechanism, and even a physical Esc key. We love it.
Performance Riley Young/Digital Trends Let’s talk about the MacBook Air first. The M1 MacBook Air makes a monstrous leap in performance. The previous MacBook Air from earlier this year was stuck with just two cores and four threads in the base model. The M1 MacBook Air has an eight-core CPU, a seven-core GPU, and Apple’s 16-core neural engine.
How does that translate to performance? Not only does the M1 MacBook Air beat out the previous model, but it also essentially beats out most other mobile processors, especially in single-threaded performance. That means if you’re a budding content creator or photographer, the MacBook Air is finally a viable option for complex tasks.
The 2021 iPad Pros will come with the M1 chip, the same found in the MacBook Air. Apple is promising a 50% increase in performance, which is a really impressive generational leap. That means editing photos and video, playing graphics-intense games, and even multitasking will be more fluid than ever.
However, there is one question that begs to be asked. Performance on the last iPad Pro was great as well. In fact, there wasn’t really any single app that pushed the iPad Pro to its limit. It was already the fastest tablet on the market, and the M1 processor will make it even more so. But is there any reason it needs to be faster? Part of what limits the capability of the iPad Pro is iPadOS itself. Maybe we will see some exciting overhauls at WWDC in June to justify the inclusion of the M1.
Portability Image used with permission by copyright holder Both devices are designed for portability. The MacBook Air is Apple’s thinnest and lightest laptop, while the iPad Pro’s tablet status makes it easy to put in a bag and take wherever you go. The MacBook Air weighs in at 2.8 pounds and measures 11.97 x 8.36 x 0.63 inches. Its all-aluminum construction keeps it lightweight while still making it strong and sturdy, as you’d expect from an Apple laptop.
The 12.9-inch iPad Pro is the closest model to the MacBook Air in terms of size. Its Wi-Fi model weighs 1.41 pounds, while the Wi-Fi and cellular version comes in at 1.42 pounds — half the weight of the MacBook Air. It measures 11.04 x 8.46 x 0.23 inches, putting its dimensions close to those of the MacBook Air.
The 11-inch model is a fair amount more portable, though, weighing just 1.04 pounds and measuring 9.74 x 7.02 x 0.23 inches. It’s the one to go for if small size is important to you.
Apple claims the MacBook Air’s battery will last for up to 15 hours of wireless web browsing, up to 18 hours of Apple TV playback, and up to 30 days of standby time thanks to its built-in 49.9-watt-hour battery.
The iPad Pro doesn’t last quite as long, but it’s not far behind. Apple says both models can give you up to 10 hours of Wi-Fi web browsing and video playback, or nine hours of web browsing using a cellular network. The 11-inch model has a 28.65-watt-hour battery compared to the 12.9-inch model’s 40.88-watt-hour battery.
The app ecosystems Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Big Sur and the introduction of the M1 chip mark the largest integration of MacOS and iOS’s app stores since Mac Catalyst.
 Catalyst allowed developers to easily port their iPad apps to Mac.
With Big Sur and M1, many iPhone and iPad apps now run natively in MacOS.
 However, the experience is mixed, to say the least. The MacBook Air doesn’t have a touchscreen, so Apple has implemented touchpad controls, which are confusing at best and frustrating at worst. Developers also have to opt in to allow their apps to appear on Mac, and users will notice many of their favorite iPhone or iPad apps missing because the developers decided not to do it.
So, while there is certainly progress being made, there is still a solid divide between the two app ecosystems.
Configurations and price Image used with permission by copyright holder The MacBook Air’s configurations aren’t as robust as they were last time around, but with the M1 chip being the only option, that is to be expected. The base model of the M1 MacBook Air includes the M1 chip, 8GB of unified memory, and a 256GB SSD. Users can configure the 8GB model with 512GB, 1TB, and 2TB SSDs as alternatives. You can also upgrade to 16GB of RAM , with the base model of that starting with a 512GB SSD. That can be upgraded to 1TB or 2TB.
For I/O, users are just as limited as they have been in the past. You get two USB-C ports, the Magic Keyboard, the Force Touch trackpad, and a Touch ID sensor. The MacBook Air also supports Wi-Fi 6 and Bluetooth 5.0. The webcam is the same dismal 720p resolution we’ve all grown accustomed to.
The configurations are even less flexible on the iPad Pro, where users only determine the internal storage (though RAM does go up with storage). The base model (in both sizes) starts with less storage — just 128GB. This can be increased to 256GB, 512GB, 1TB, and now 2TB with the new models. The entry-level 11-inch version with Wi-Fi and 128GB of storage costs $749; max it out with 2TB of storage and cellular connectivity and you’ll need to pay $1,999.
If you prefer the 12-inch version, the entry-level model starts at $1,099, while the top-end model costs $2,299. That puts the price premium for shifting up from 11 inches to 12.9 inches at $200.
That’s a sizable price jump from last year, but keep in mind the 12.9-inch does come with an improved display and both come with 5G connectivity.
What about that snazzy new Magic Keyboard cover for the iPad Pro? It’ll give you a device that’s even more closely comparable to the MacBook Air, but be warned — it’s extremely expensive. The 11-inch version costs a princely $299, while the larger edition is an eye-watering $349. Even with the 11-inch iPad Pro, you’re looking at paying a minimum of $1,098 for the combination, which is $99 more than the entry-level MacBook Air.
The MacBook Air’s power makes it the clear winner Mark Coppock/Digital Trends We still think the MacBook Air is the best option for most people. While having the M1 in the new iPad Pros is exciting, we can’t recommend it for everyone until we see how iPadOS changes with the new chip. And while the Liquid Retina XDR display seems awesome, at $1,099 it may not be necessary for most people.
The MacBook Air isn’t as portable as the iPad Pro, but it is still thin and light and by no means uncomfortable to lug around, but the M1 chip makes the MacBook Air worthwhile. While it used to be a decent laptop, it’s now a very capable platform that can handle video and photo editing with ease, effortlessly opening tabs on Chrome at the same time to optimize your experience. Plus, while the integration of apps may be buggy now, it offers a lot of potential for the future.
WWDC is coming up in June, and that is when Apple will announce any big changes to iPadOS. Check back frequently to find our review of the new iPad Pro when it comes out.
Editors' Recommendations Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more I saw the new Space Black MacBook Pro, and it’s stunning Whatever you do, don’t buy a MacBook Pro right now How to keep your MacBook from sleeping Why it’s still a good time to buy an M2 MacBook Air Apple Apple Apple iPad Laptops Mac Versus Computing With Apple's introduction of the latest M2 MacBook models, it's time to take another look at which is the best MacBook to buy in 2023. That's not always easy, though, as buying the newest MacBook isn't always the right decision. Apple has several tiers of performance, as well as various sizes, which can complicate the matter.
There are several MacBook models available, designated MacBook Air or MacBook Pro, with varying memory and storage configurations, as well as four kinds of processors, providing a wide selection to choose from.
Computing You may have missed Amazon's returning Prime Day deals from Prime Big Deal Days 2023, but you still have the chance to get the 15-inch Apple MacBook Air M2 for much cheaper than usual from Best Buy. Instead of $1,299, it's down to just $1,049, for savings of $250. It's still not cheap, but Apple fans know that you should take any opportunity to get the brand's products with a discount, because MacBook deals don't happen too often. You need to hurry with your purchase though, as we don't expect the offer to last much longer.
Why you should buy the 15-inch Apple MacBook Air M2 The Apple MacBook Air M2 is featured in our roundup of the best MacBooks as the top budget choice. For a relatively affordable price compared to Apple's other laptops, you'll experience the power of Apple's M2 chip, which is so efficient that it enables a battery life of up to 18 hours, and a fanless design that keeps the device completely silent while it's in use. The version of the Apple MacBook Air M2 with the gorgeous 15.3-inch Liquid Retina display comes with an 8-core CPU and a 10-core GPU that can complete tough tasks without any issues, 8GB of RAM for smooth performance, and a 256GB SSD for ample storage space.
Computing With the Amazon Prime Big Deals Day event now underway, this is the perfect time to buy a MacBook Air M1 at a fantastic price. It's just one of the many Prime Day deals going on right now to mark the start of the sales event. Buy the Apple MacBook Air M1 today and you'll pay just $750 so you save $249 or 25% off the regular price of $999. It's one of the more affordable ways of buying a MacBook although we have plenty of other Prime Day MacBook deals to check out too if you want to invest more in your new laptop. The Apple MacBook Air M1 may not be the latest tech any more but it's still more than powerful enough for most people to use it and enjoy it. Read on while we take you through what else you need to know about it before you tap the buy button this sales season.
Why you should buy the Apple MacBook Air M1 Back when it was first launched, we described the Apple MacBook Air M1 as "fast, fanless, and absolutely fantastic". It remains all of those things. We've broken down the differences between the M2 and M1 and while the newer chip is better, it's less of a substantial difference than you'd think.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Send to Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
