The Variational Quantum Eigensolver — Explained | by Frank Zickert | Quantum Machine Learning | Towards Data Science
2021
https://towardsdatascience.com/the-variational-quantum-eigensolver-explained-adcbc9659c3a

Sign up Sign In Write Sign up Sign In Member-only story The Variational Quantum Eigensolver — Explained A Quantum Machine Learning Algorithm Frank Zickert | Quantum Machine Learning · Follow Published in Towards Data Science · 6 min read · Feb 16, 2021 -- Share This post is part of the book: Hands-On Quantum Machine Learning With Python.
The Variational Quantum Eigensolver (VQE) is a hybrid quantum-classical algorithm. It aims to find an upper bound of the lowest eigenvalue of a given Hamiltonian.
If you’re not a physicist, your most appropriate reply is: “ what?! ” Fortunately, you don’t need a physicist to understand quantum machine learning.
 So, let me rephrase.
The VQE is an algorithm running partly on a classical computer and partly on a quantum computer. It lets you find the combination of values that solve a given optimization problem — approximately.
Solving optimization problems is paramount in machine learning. Machine learning algorithms depend on a set of parameters. During the training, we aim to find the values of these parameters. Since we don’t know the correct values, we try to learn these values from the data.
But this is not that easy. With an increasing number of parameters, the number of possible combinations of values grows exponentially. Let’s take chess for example.
There are 64 spaces and there are 16 pieces each. After each player moved a single piece, there are 400 different positions. There are 72,084 positions after two moves of each player, around 9 million after three, and around 288 billion after four moves. There a more 40-move games than the number of atoms in the known observable universe.
How do we find the best one — or at least a sufficiently good one combination? It is like looking for the needle in the haystack.
This is where optimization algorithms come into play.
Let’s say, we have a single parameter, θ. Then, we can print the surface in a two-dimensional graph.
The X-axis shows the potential values of θ. We map the output of a cost function associated with the respective value of θ on the Y-axis. The cost is usually the result of calculating the error or the loss of the model. The lower the cost the better the solution.
-- -- Follow Written by Frank Zickert | Quantum Machine Learning 8.3K Followers · Writer for Towards Data Science You're interested in quantum computing and machine learning. But you don't know how to get started? Let me help Follow More from Frank Zickert | Quantum Machine Learning and Towards Data Science Frank Zickert | Quantum Machine Learning in Towards Data Science Explaining The Math Of A Quantum Circuit For The Non-Mathematician Do you struggle with understanding quantum circuits because of all the math? · 9 min read · Jul 20, 2021 -- Adrian H. Raudaschl in Towards Data Science Forget RAG, the Future is RAG-Fusion The Next Frontier of Search: Retrieval Augmented Generation meets Reciprocal Rank Fusion and Generated Queries · 10 min read · Oct 6 -- 24 Damian Gil in Towards Data Science Mastering Customer Segmentation with LLM Unlock advanced customer segmentation techniques using LLMs, and improve your clustering models with advanced techniques 24 min read · Sep 26 -- 26 Frank Zickert | Quantum Machine Learning The Unvarnished Truth About What Quantum Computing Really Is Do you want to get started with Quantum Machine Learning? Have a look at Hands-On Quantum Machine Learning With Python.
· 7 min read · Apr 11 -- 1 Recommended from Medium Qiskit in Qiskit Schrödinger’s cat meets Qiskit: Why do we never see cats that are both dead and alive? Can a cat be dead and alive at the same time? In 1935, quantum physicist Erwin Schrödinger came up with a thought experiment showing that… 8 min read · 6 days ago -- 3 Srila P.
Grover’s Algorithm in Qiskit Introduction 5 min read · Jun 25 -- Lists Predictive Modeling w/ Python · Practical Guides to Machine Learning · Natural Language Processing · The New Chatbots: ChatGPT, Bard, and Beyond · Freedom Preetham in Autonomous Agents What Next after Transformers? A Rigorous Mathematical Examination of the Retentive Network (RETNET) The landscape of deep learning is punctuated by the emergence of novel architectures, each aiming to address the multifaceted challenges… 10 min read · Sep 24 -- 1 Monit Sharma Learn Quantum Computing with Qiskit: Quantum Fourier Transform Lecture 16: Learn Quantum Fourier Transform · 12 min read · Aug 2 -- Jack Krupansky Feynman’s Three Papers Related to Quantum Computing Mention Feynman’s paper on quantum computing, and most people will immediately presume that you mean his 1982 paper on Simulating physics… 3 min read · Jun 14 -- Olga Chebyshev Polynomials in Quantum Computing A gentle introduction to Chebyshev polynomials and Quantum Signal Processing.
· 10 min read · Sep 7 -- Help Status About Careers Blog Privacy Terms Text to speech Teams
