DeepMind’s AI predicts structures for a vast trove of proteins
2021
https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-021-02025-4

Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript.
Advertisement View all journals Search Log in Explore content About the journal Publish with us Subscribe Sign up for alerts RSS feed nature news article Download PDF NEWS 22 July 2021 DeepMind’s AI predicts structures for a vast trove of proteins Ewen Callaway Ewen Callaway View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Twitter Facebook Email You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF The human mediator complex has long been one of the most challenging multi-protein systems for structural biologists to understand.
Credit: Yuan He The human genome holds the instructions for more than 20,000 proteins. But only about one-third of those have had their 3D structures determined experimentally. And in many cases, those structures are only partially known.
Now, a transformative artificial intelligence (AI) tool called AlphaFold, which has been developed by Google’s sister company DeepMind in London, has predicted the structure of nearly the entire human proteome (the full complement of proteins expressed by an organism). In addition, the tool has predicted almost complete proteomes for various other organisms, ranging from mice and maize (corn) to the malaria parasite (see ‘Folding options’).
The more than 350,000 protein structures, which are available through a public database, vary in their accuracy. But researchers say the resource — which is set to grow to 130 million structures by the end of the year — has the potential to revolutionize the life sciences.
Source: EMBL–EBI and https://swissmodel.expasy.org/repository “It’s totally transformative from my perspective. Having the shapes of all these proteins really gives you insight into their mechanisms,” says Christine Orengo, a computational biologist at University College London (UCL).
“This is the biggest contribution an AI system has made so far to advancing scientific knowledge. I don’t think it’s a stretch to say that,” says Demis Hassabis, co-founder and chief executive of DeepMind.
But researchers emphasize that the data dump is a beginning, not an end. They will want to validate the predictions and, more importantly, apply them to experiments that were hitherto impossible. “It’s an amazing first step, that we have all this data on that scale,” says David Jones, a UCL computational biologist who advised DeepMind on an earlier iteration of AlphaFold.
Prizewinning predictions DeepMind stunned the life-sciences community last year, when an updated version of AlphaFold swept a biennial protein-prediction exercise called CASP (Critical Assessment of Protein Structure Prediction). In this long-running competition, which has traditionally been the domain of academics, researchers predict the structures of proteins whose structures have been experimentally solved, but not yet made public.
Some of AlphaFold’s predictions were on par with very good experimental models, and some scientists said the network’s influence would be epochal. Last week, DeepMind released the source code behind the latest version of AlphaFold, and a detailed description of how it was developed 1 (academic teams have already begun using these resources to make useful predictions). In the process of preparing AlphaFold’s code for public release, DeepMind refined it to make the code run more efficiently. Some of the CASP predictions took days, but the updated version of AlphaFold could now compute them in minutes to hours.
With this added efficiency, the DeepMind team set out to predict the structures of nearly every known protein encoded by the human genome, as well as those of 20 model organisms. The structures are available in a database maintained by EMBL-EBI (the European Molecular Biology Laboratory European Bioinformatics Institute) in Hinxton, UK.
In addition to the predicted structures, which cover 98.5% of known human proteins and a similar percentage for other organisms, AlphaFold generated a measurement of the confidence of its predictions. “We want to give experimentalists and biologists a really clear signal of which parts of the predictions they should rely on,” says Kathryn Tunyasuvunakool, a science engineer at DeepMind and first author of a Nature paper describing the human proteome predictions 2.
 For the human proteome, 58% of its predictions for the locations of individual amino acids were good enough to be confident in the shape of the protein’s folds, Tunyasuvunakool says. A subset of those predictions — 36% of the total — are potentially precise enough to detail atomic features useful for drug design, such as the active site of an enzyme.
Even the less-accurate predictions might offer insights. Biologists think that a large proportion of human proteins and those of other eukaryotes — organisms with cells that have nuclei — contain regions that are are inherently disordered and take on a defined structure only in concert with other molecules. “Many proteins are just wiggly in solution, they don’t have a fixed structure,” says AlphaFold lead researcher John Jumper. Some of the regions that AlphaFold predicted with low confidence match up with those that biologists suspect are disordered, says Pushmeet Kohli, head of AI for science at DeepMind.
Determining how individual proteins interact with other cellular players is one of the greatest challenges to the AlphaFold predictions, say researchers. For the CASP competition, most of its predictions were of independently folding units of a protein, called domains. But the human proteome, and those of other organisms, contains proteins with multiple domains that fold semi-independently. Human cells also contain molecules made of multiple chains of interacting proteins, such as receptors on cell membranes.
Deluge of data The approximately 365,000 structure predictions deposited this week should swell to 130 million — nearly half of all known proteins — by the year’s end, says Sameer Velankar, a structural bioinformatician at EMBL-EBI. The database will be updated as new proteins are identified and predictions improved. “This is not a resource you expect to have access to,” says Tunyasuvunakool, and she is eager to see what scientists come up with.
Researchers are already using AlphaFold and related tools to help make sense out of experimental data generated using X-ray crystallography and cryo-electron microscopy. Marcelo Sousa, a biochemist at the University of Colorado Boulder, used AlphaFold to make models from X-ray data of proteins that bacteria use to evade an antibiotic called colistin. The parts of the experimental model that differed from the AlphaFold prediction were typically regions that the software had assigned with low confidence, Sousa notes, a sign that AlphaFold is accurately predicting its limits.
Still, biologists will want to continue benchmarking these predictions to experimental data to get a better handle on their reliability, says Venki Ramakrishnan, a structural biologist at the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology in Cambridge, UK. “We need to be able to trust these data,” adds Orengo.
Jones is impressed with what the network has achieved. But he says that many of the models predicted by AlphaFold could have been generated with earlier software developed by academics. “For most proteins, those results are probably good enough for quite a lot of the things you want to do.” Scientists dead-set on obtaining the structure of any particular protein could probably succeed using experimental approaches.
But the availability of so many protein structures is likely to mark a “paradigm shift” in biology, says Mohammed AlQuraishi, a computational biologist at Columbia University in New York City who works on protein-structure prediction. His field has spent so much time and energy on predicting accurate protein structures on this scale that it hasn’t yet worked out what do with such resources. “Everything we do today that relies on a protein sequence, we can now do with protein structure.” Orengo hopes that the database will help her to better understand the structural constraints of proteins. She has mapped a database of known proteins into about 5,000 ‘structural families’, but about half of the proteins in the database are excluded because there is nothing else like them for which a structure has been determined. AlphaFold’s predictions could help uncover new shapes, she says. “We’ll really see what folding space looks like.” Jones expects AlphaFold will lead to a lot of soul-searching among biologists about what to do with so many structures — and the ease of creating many more. “There will be conferences. Now we’ve got 130 million models, how does this change our view of biology? It may be it doesn’t change it,” he says. “I suspect it will.” Nature 595 , 635 (2021) doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-021-02025-4 References Jumper, J.
et al.
Nature https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-021-03819-2 (2021).
Article Google Scholar Tunyasuvunakool, K.
et al.
Nature https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-021-03828-1 (2021).
Article Google Scholar Download references Reprints and Permissions Related Articles DeepMind’s AI for protein structure is coming to the masses ‘It will change everything’: DeepMind’s AI makes gigantic leap in solving protein structures AI protein-folding algorithms solve structures faster than ever Subjects Proteomics Structural biology Machine learning Latest on: Soft-landing methods aim to simplify structural biology Technology Feature 16 OCT 23 Large-scale plasma proteomics comparisons through genetics and disease associations Article 04 OCT 23 Rare variant associations with plasma protein levels in the UK Biobank Article 04 OCT 23 An ion transporter in sperm that has features of a channel News & Views 25 OCT 23 Structure and electromechanical coupling of a voltage-gated Na+/H+ exchanger Article 25 OCT 23 Structures of a sperm-specific solute carrier gated by voltage and cAMP Article 25 OCT 23 Why the UK-led global AI summit is missing the point Editorial 31 OCT 23 How AI can help to save endangered species News 27 OCT 23 How robots can learn to follow a moral code Outlook 26 OCT 23 Jobs [DGIST] The second half of 2023 Tenure-Track Faculty Public Invitation South Korea (KR) DGIST Principle Investigator and Joint Recruitment Position-Postdoc The Center for Evolutionary & Organismal Biology invites applications from evolutionary scientists for All ranks.
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China Center for Evolutionary & Organismal Biology, Zhejiang University Tenure-track Faculty Positions in Particle Physics and Cosmology Faculty Positions in Particle Physics and Cosmology Hong Kong (HK) Department of Physics, The Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) Assistant/Associate Professor Center for Virology and Vaccine Research (CVVR) at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) is seeking Assistant or Associate Professor.
Boston, Massachusetts (US) Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel to the Global Environment Facility Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel to the Global Environment Facility: Panel Member for Land Degradation Washington D.C. (US) Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF Related Articles DeepMind’s AI for protein structure is coming to the masses ‘It will change everything’: DeepMind’s AI makes gigantic leap in solving protein structures AI protein-folding algorithms solve structures faster than ever Subjects Proteomics Structural biology Machine learning Sign up to Nature Briefing An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Close Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Close Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Explore content Research articles News Opinion Research Analysis Careers Books & Culture Podcasts Videos Current issue Browse issues Collections Subjects Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Subscribe Sign up for alerts RSS feed About the journal Journal Staff About the Editors Journal Information Our publishing models Editorial Values Statement Journal Metrics Awards Contact Editorial policies History of Nature Send a news tip Publish with us For Authors For Referees Language editing services Submit manuscript Search Quick links Explore articles by subject Find a job Guide to authors Editorial policies Nature ( Nature ) ISSN 1476-4687 (online) ISSN 0028-0836 (print) nature.com sitemap About Nature Portfolio About us Press releases Press office Contact us Discover content Journals A-Z Articles by subject Nano Protocol Exchange Nature Index Publishing policies Nature portfolio policies Open access Author & Researcher services Reprints & permissions Research data Language editing Scientific editing Nature Masterclasses Live Expert Trainer-led workshops Research Solutions Libraries & institutions Librarian service & tools Librarian portal Open research Recommend to library Advertising & partnerships Advertising Partnerships & Services Media kits Branded content Career development Nature Careers Nature Conferences Nature events Regional websites Nature Africa Nature China Nature India Nature Italy Nature Japan Nature Korea Nature Middle East Privacy Policy Use of cookies Your privacy choices/Manage cookies Legal notice Accessibility statement Terms & Conditions Your US state privacy rights © 2023 Springer Nature Limited
