DeepMind AI tackles one of chemistry’s most valuable techniques
2021
https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-021-03697-8

Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript.
Advertisement View all journals Search Log in Explore content About the journal Publish with us Subscribe Sign up for alerts RSS feed nature news article Download PDF NEWS 10 December 2021 DeepMind AI tackles one of chemistry’s most valuable techniques Davide Castelvecchi Davide Castelvecchi View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Twitter Facebook Email You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF The AI predicts the distribution of electrons within a molecule (illustration) and uses it to calculate physical properties.
Credit: DeepMind A team led by scientists at the London-based artificial-intelligence company DeepMind has developed a machine-learning model that suggests a molecule’s characteristics by predicting the distribution of electrons within it. The approach, described in the 10 December issue of Science 1 , can calculate the properties of some molecules more accurately than existing techniques.
“To make it as accurate as they have done is a feat,” says Anatole von Lilienfeld, a materials scientist at the University of Vienna.
The paper is “a solid piece of work”, says Katarzyna Pernal, a computational chemist at Lodz University of Technology in Poland. But she adds that the machine-learning model has a long way to go before it can be useful for computational chemists.
Predicting properties In principle, the structure of materials and molecules is entirely determined by quantum mechanics, and specifically by the Schrödinger equation, which governs the behaviour of electron wavefunctions. These are the mathematical gadgets that describe the probability of finding a particular electron at a particular position in space. But because all the electrons interact with one another, calculating the structure or molecular orbitals from such first principles is a computational nightmare, and can be done only for the simplest molecules, such as benzene, says James Kirkpatrick, a physicist at DeepMind.
Can artificial intelligence create the next wonder material? To get around this problem, researchers — from pharmacologists to battery engineers — whose work relies on discovering or developing new molecules have for decades relied on a set of techniques called density functional theory (DFT) to predict molecules’ physical properties. The theory does not attempt to model individual electrons, but instead aims to calculate the overall distribution of the electrons’ negative electric charge across the molecule. “DFT looks at the average charge density, so it doesn’t know what individual electrons are,” says Kirkpatrick. Most properties of matter can then be easily calculated from that density.
Since its beginnings in the 1960s, DFT has become one of the most widely used techniques in the physical sciences: an investigation by Nature ’s news team in 2014 found that, of the top 100 most-cited papers , 12 were about DFT. Modern databases of materials’ properties, such as the Materials Project , consist to a large extent of DFT calculations.
But the approach has limitations, and is known to give the wrong results for certain types of molecule, even some as simple as sodium chloride. And although DFT calculations are vastly more efficient than those that start from basic quantum theory, they are still cumbersome and often require supercomputers. So, in the past decade, theoretical chemists have increasingly started to experiment with machine learning, in particular to study properties such as materials’ chemical reactivity or their ability to conduct heat.
Ideal problem The DeepMind team has made probably the most ambitious attempt yet to deploy AI to calculate electron density, the end result of DFT calculations. “It’s sort of the ideal problem for machine learning: you know the answer, but not the formula you want to apply,” says Aron Cohen, a theoretical chemist who has long worked on DFT and who is now at DeepMind.
DeepMind’s AI helps untangle the mathematics of knots The team trained an artificial neural network on data from 1,161 accurate solutions derived from the Schrödinger equations. To improve accuracy, they also hard-wired some of the known laws of physics into the network. They then tested the trained system on a set of molecules that are often used as a benchmark for DFT, and the results were impressive, says von Lilienfeld. “This is the best the community has managed to come up with, and they beat it by a margin,” he says.
One advantage of machine learning, von Lilienfeld adds, is that although it takes a massive amount of computing power to train the models, that process needs to be done only once. Individual predictions can then be done on a regular laptop, vastly reducing their cost and carbon footprint, compared with having to perform the calculations from scratch every time.
Kirkpatrick and Cohen say that DeepMind is releasing their trained system for anyone to use. For now, the model applies mostly to molecules and not to the crystal structures of materials, but future versions could work for materials, too, the authors say.
Nature 600 , 371 (2021) doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-021-03697-8 References Kirkpatrick, J.
et al.
Science 374 , 1385–1389 (2021).
Article Google Scholar Download references Reprints and Permissions Related Articles The top 100 papers Can artificial intelligence create the next wonder material? DeepMind’s AI helps untangle the mathematics of knots DeepMind’s AI predicts structures for a vast trove of proteins Subjects Chemistry Materials science Machine learning Mathematics and computing Latest on: US universities must tackle their huge carbon footprints Correspondence 31 OCT 23 Anion–π interactions suppress phase impurities in FAPbI3 solar cells Article 18 OCT 23 Arenium-ion-catalysed halodealkylation of fully alkylated silanes Article 11 OCT 23 On the origin of diffuse intensities in fcc electron diffraction patterns Article 25 OCT 23 Interface design for all-solid-state lithium batteries Article 25 OCT 23 Remarkable heat conduction mediated by non-equilibrium phonon polaritons Article 25 OCT 23 Why the UK-led global AI summit is missing the point Editorial 31 OCT 23 How AI can help to save endangered species News 27 OCT 23 How robots can learn to follow a moral code Outlook 26 OCT 23 Jobs [DGIST] The second half of 2023 Tenure-Track Faculty Public Invitation South Korea (KR) DGIST Principle Investigator and Joint Recruitment Position-Postdoc The Center for Evolutionary & Organismal Biology invites applications from evolutionary scientists for All ranks.
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China Center for Evolutionary & Organismal Biology, Zhejiang University Tenure-track Faculty Positions in Particle Physics and Cosmology Faculty Positions in Particle Physics and Cosmology Hong Kong (HK) Department of Physics, The Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) Assistant/Associate Professor Center for Virology and Vaccine Research (CVVR) at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) is seeking Assistant or Associate Professor.
Boston, Massachusetts (US) Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel to the Global Environment Facility Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel to the Global Environment Facility: Panel Member for Land Degradation Washington D.C. (US) Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF Related Articles The top 100 papers Can artificial intelligence create the next wonder material? DeepMind’s AI helps untangle the mathematics of knots DeepMind’s AI predicts structures for a vast trove of proteins Subjects Chemistry Materials science Machine learning Mathematics and computing Sign up to Nature Briefing An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Close Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Close Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Explore content Research articles News Opinion Research Analysis Careers Books & Culture Podcasts Videos Current issue Browse issues Collections Subjects Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Subscribe Sign up for alerts RSS feed About the journal Journal Staff About the Editors Journal Information Our publishing models Editorial Values Statement Journal Metrics Awards Contact Editorial policies History of Nature Send a news tip Publish with us For Authors For Referees Language editing services Submit manuscript Search Quick links Explore articles by subject Find a job Guide to authors Editorial policies Nature ( Nature ) ISSN 1476-4687 (online) ISSN 0028-0836 (print) nature.com sitemap About Nature Portfolio About us Press releases Press office Contact us Discover content Journals A-Z Articles by subject Nano Protocol Exchange Nature Index Publishing policies Nature portfolio policies Open access Author & Researcher services Reprints & permissions Research data Language editing Scientific editing Nature Masterclasses Live Expert Trainer-led workshops Research Solutions Libraries & institutions Librarian service & tools Librarian portal Open research Recommend to library Advertising & partnerships Advertising Partnerships & Services Media kits Branded content Career development Nature Careers Nature Conferences Nature events Regional websites Nature Africa Nature China Nature India Nature Italy Nature Japan Nature Korea Nature Middle East Privacy Policy Use of cookies Your privacy choices/Manage cookies Legal notice Accessibility statement Terms & Conditions Your US state privacy rights © 2023 Springer Nature Limited
