Understanding Zero-Shot Learning — Making ML More Human | by Ekin Tiu | Towards Data Science
2021
https://towardsdatascience.com/understanding-zero-shot-learning-making-ml-more-human-4653ac35ccab

Sign up Sign In Write Sign up Sign In Member-only story Understanding Zero-Shot Learning — Making ML More Human An intuitive overview of how a model can recognize what it hasn’t seen.
Ekin Tiu · Follow Published in Towards Data Science · 10 min read · Jun 23, 2021 -- 3 Share Introduction — What is Zero-Shot Learning? Zero-shot learning allows a model to recognize what it hasn’t seen before.
Imagine you’re tasked with designing the latest and greatest machine learning model that can classify all animals.
Yes, all animals.
Using your machine learning knowledge, you immediately understand that we need a labeled dataset with at least one example for every single animal. There’s 1,899,587 described species in the world, so you’re gonna need a dataset with roughly 2 million different classes.
Yikes.
As you’ve probably noticed by now, getting large quantities of high quality labeled data is hard. Very hard.
It doesn’t help when there are a gazillion different classes (i.e. animal species) that your model has to learn.
So how do we solve this problem? One way is to decrease our models’ reliance on labeled data.
 This is the motivation behind zero-shot learning, in which your model learns how to classify classes that it hasn’t seen before.
In the animal species classification example, your model may be able to predict that the image on the bottom right corner is a “Panda”, even though it didn’t explicitly see a labeled example of a “Panda” during training.
Crazy huh?! In the next section, we’ll learn how this seemingly magical method works through some examples of models that employ a zero-shot setup.
How does Zero-Shot Learning Work? Although there are multiple approaches to zero-shot learning in literature, this article focuses on a recent method called Contrastive Language-Image Pretraining (CLIP) proposed by OpenAI that has performed well in a zero-shot setting [2].
-- -- 3 Follow Written by Ekin Tiu 1.3K Followers · Writer for Towards Data Science CS @ Stanford University | Stanford ML Group Follow More from Ekin Tiu and Towards Data Science Ekin Tiu in Towards Data Science Understanding Latent Space in Machine Learning Learn a fundamental, yet often ‘hidden,’ concept of deep learning · 9 min read · Feb 4, 2020 -- 31 Adrian H. Raudaschl in Towards Data Science Forget RAG, the Future is RAG-Fusion The Next Frontier of Search: Retrieval Augmented Generation meets Reciprocal Rank Fusion and Generated Queries · 10 min read · Oct 6 -- 24 Damian Gil in Towards Data Science Mastering Customer Segmentation with LLM Unlock advanced customer segmentation techniques using LLMs, and improve your clustering models with advanced techniques 24 min read · Sep 26 -- 26 Ekin Tiu in Towards Data Science Understanding Contrastive Learning Learn how to learn without labels.
· 8 min read · Jan 7, 2021 -- 7 Recommended from Medium Marco Peixeiro in Towards Data Science TimeGPT: The First Foundation Model for Time Series Forecasting Explore the first generative pre-trained forecasting model and apply it in a project with Python · 12 min read · Oct 24 -- 14 AL Anany The ChatGPT Hype Is Over — Now Watch How Google Will Kill ChatGPT.
It never happens instantly. The business game is longer than you know.
· 6 min read · Sep 1 -- 512 Lists Predictive Modeling w/ Python · Natural Language Processing · AI Regulation · Practical Guides to Machine Learning · Maximilian Vogel in MLearning.ai The ChatGPT list of lists: A collection of 3000+ prompts, examples, use-cases, tools, APIs… Updated Oct-18, 2023. New developer resources, marketing & SEO prompts, new prompt engineering courses, masterclasses and tutorials.
11 min read · Feb 7 -- 125 Ming-Hao Hsu Multimodal Machine Learning Defining Multimodality and Understanding its Heterogeneity 7 min read · Jun 18 -- Cobus Greyling A New Prompt Engineering Technique Has Been Introduced Called Step-Back Prompting Step-Back Prompting is a prompting technique enabling LLMs to perform abstractions, derive high-level concepts & first principles from… 5 min read · Oct 12 -- 10 Chaitanya Dua Error Log Management Using AI A Beginner’s Guide 4 min read · Jun 24 -- Help Status About Careers Blog Privacy Terms Text to speech Teams
