This Week’s Awesome Tech Stories From Around the Web (Through September 4)
2021
https://singularityhub.com/2021/09/04/this-weeks-awesome-tech-stories-from-around-the-web-through-september-4

Topics AI Biotech Computing Space Energy Future Tech Robotics Science Experts Featured Experts Perspectives Books Events Videos Latest Series Interviews About Singularity About Programs Membership Experts Community Careers Subscribe Welcome! Search.
News and Insights from Singularity Group Search Subscribe to our newsletter Singularity Group Singularity Community Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube.
st0{fill:#FFFFFF;} .st1{fill:url(#SVGID_1_);} Singularity Hub News and Insights from Singularity Group Topics Experts Events Videos Search singularity group singularity community Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube.
st0{fill:#FFFFFF;} .st1{fill:url(#SVGID_1_);} Singularity Hub News and Insights from Singularity Group Topics Experts Events Videos Search This Week’s Awesome Tech Stories From Around the Web (Through September 4) By COMPUTING The $150 Million Machine Keeping Moore’s Law Alive Will Knight | Wired “The technology will be crucial for making more advanced smartphones and cloud computers, and also for key areas of emerging technology such as artificial intelligence, biotechnology, and robotics. ‘The death of Moore’s law has been greatly exaggerated,’ del Alamos says. ‘I think it’s going to go on for quite some time.’ i ” ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE These Super-Efficient, Artificial Neurons Do Not Use Electrons Payal Dhar | IEEE Spectrum “[Though] artificial intelligence has come a long way, these systems are still far from matching the brain’s energy efficiency. …’The human brain…needs only 20 watts [to function], essentially [as much as] a light bulb,’ says Paul Robin, one of the scientists on the study. ‘Computers need much more energy. Our idea is that maybe the reason why our brain is so much more efficient is that it uses ions and not electrons to function.’ i ” FUTURE Artificial Intelligence and the ‘Gods Behind the Masks’ Kai-Fu Lee and Chen Qiufan | Wired “In an excerpt from AI 2041: Ten Visions for Our Future , Kai-Fu Lee and Chen Qiufan explore what happens when deepfakers attack the deepfakes. …Touching on impending breakthroughs in computer vision, biometrics, and AI security, it imagines a future world marked by cat-and-mouse games between deepfakers and detectors, and between defenders and perpetrators.” ENERGY This Wildly Reinvented Wind Turbine Generates Five Times More Energy Than Its Competitors Elissaveta M. Brandon | Fast Company “Unlike traditional wind turbines, which consist of one pole and three gargantuan blades, the so-called Wind Catcher is articulated in a square grid with over 100 small blades. At 1,000 feet high, the system is over three times as tall as an average wind turbine, and it stands on a floating platform that’s anchored to the ocean floor.” ROBOTICS Segway’s New Lawn Robot Uses GPS to Cut Your Grass David Watsky | CNET “While it’s not the first robotic lawnmower , the Navimov’s value proposition against a competitive set is that it doesn’t require boundary cords as with most other devices in the category. Rather, it relies on something called the Exact Fusion Locating System—also known as ‘GPS’—to allow ‘precise positions and systematic mowing patterns’ in an effort you get you that perfectly manicured lawn without having to, ya know, actually mow it.” SPACE NASA’s Perseverance Rover Finally Scooped Up a Piece of Mars Neel V. Patel | MIT Technology Review “The rover bounced back from a failed attempt and acquired a sample of rock and soil that could reveal the secrets of ancient life on Mars. …[It] marks the first time a sample has ever been recovered on the planet. …Collecting samples is one of the marquee goals of the mission. Perseverance is equipped with 43 collection tubes, and NASA hopes to fill them all with rock and soil samples from Mars to one day bring back to Earth.” ETHICS The Fight to Define When AI Is ‘High Risk’ Khari Johnson | Wired “The AI Act is one of the first major policy initiatives worldwide focused on protecting people from harmful AI. If enacted, it will classify AI systems according to risk, more strictly regulate AI that’s deemed high risk to humans, and ban some forms of AI entirely, including real-time facial recognition in some instances. In the meantime, corporations and interest groups are publicly lobbying lawmakers to amend the proposal according to their interests.” Image Credit: Hector Falcon / Unsplash Tags Curation RELATED This Week’s Awesome Tech Stories From Around the Web (Through October 28) October 28, 2023 This Week’s Awesome Tech Stories From Around the Web (Through October 21) October 21, 2023 This Week’s Awesome Tech Stories From Around the Web (Through October 14) October 14, 2023 latest Like Humans, This Breakthrough AI Makes Concepts Out of the Words It Learns October 31, 2023 Why Google and Bing’s Embrace of Generative AI Could Upend the SEO Industry October 29, 2023 This Week’s Awesome Tech Stories From Around the Web (Through October 28) October 28, 2023 featured Carl Sagan Detected Life on Earth 30 Years Ago—Here’s Why His Experiment Still Matters Today October 26, 2023 Singularity Hub News and Insights from Singularity Group Singularity labs A 360 Singularity Hub About Creative Commons Pitch Us Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Singularity Group About Executive Program Custom Programs Podcasts Insights Blog Stay connected Facebook Instagram RSS Twitter Youtube Get the latest news from Singularity Hub! Sign Up Copyright © Singularity Group. All rights reserved.
