Transformative Leadership in the Age of AI | MIT Technology Review
2021
https://www.technologyreview.com/2021/03/25/1043574/transformative-leadership-in-the-age-of-ai

Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Sponsored Transformative Leadership in the Age of AI Sanjeev Vohra (Accenture), Krishna Cheriath (Zoetis), and Elizabeth Bramson-Boudreau (MIT Technology Review) Presented by Accenture Once the source of incremental improvements in customer experience or operational efficiency, AI initiatives today drive company-wide innovation, competitive moats, disruption, and dominance in the market. In our post-COVID world, embracing AI has become an existential challenge. Leading with AI requires a purposeful strategy that is honed at the top of the house and designed not just to close the gap with digital natives but to lead an industry.
About the speakers Sanjeev Vohra, Global Lead, Applied Intelligence, Accenture Sanjeev Vohra is the global lead of Accenture Applied Intelligence. He is a seasoned leader and respected innovator with more than 18 years at Accenture serving in a variety of leadership roles focused on large-scale digital transformation to create new growth opportunities. He is also a member of Accenture’s Global Management Committee.
In his current role, Sanjeev helps clients across industries and markets evaluate, maximize, and scale business value through the strategic application of data, advanced analytics, artificial intelligence, and automation. He is responsible for the company’s Applied Intelligence strategy, business growth, talent development, industry-specific solutions, strategic partnerships, and V&A investments.
Before being named to his current position in July 2020, Sanjeev was Accenture’s Growth and Strategy lead for Technology where he led all aspects of Technology’s business strategy and investments, including ventures and acquisitions. Prior to this role, Sanjeev spearheaded Accenture’s data services portfolio, during which time he led several transformative strategies and solutions that created tangible business value from data.
In 2013, when Accenture created Accenture Digital, Sanjeev played a central role in developing differentiated digital capabilities that significantly advanced our clients’ digital transformation journeys. He helped shape Accenture’s culture of continuous learning and new skilling that continues to drive new capabilities for the company and its clients.
Prior to joining Accenture in 2002, Sanjeev’s experience spanned areas including supply chain operations and process re-engineering, manufacturing, engineering and telecommunications, demand planning, distribution and customer experience transformation, leveraging advanced analytics, and ERP.
In addition, Sanjeev possesses unique experience in developing strategic partnerships between Accenture and leading academic institutions including MIT, Stanford, Wharton, and Harvard, to develop several ground-breaking learning programs and research. Sanjeev is a sought-after speaker for industry and partner events and has published thought leadership in the areas of data, AI, and technology impact on business.
Sanjeev holds a Bachelor of Technology degree and an MBA from the Indian Institute of Technology Delhi.
Krishna Cheriath, Vice President, Digital, Data & Analytics, Zoetis Building world-class digital data and analytic organizations that accelerate business outcomes through digital innovation and drive effective data strategies are Krishna Cheriath’s areas of excellence. With 20+ years of biopharma experience, Krishna advances enterprise digital and data strategy while leading high-performing teams at Zoetis and previously at Bristol Myers Squibb, HighPoint Solutions, Accenture, IBM, and PwC.
As an approachable, solutions-oriented leader, Krishna uses his 20+ years of leadership and biopharma experience to advance business outcomes across the biopharma value chain, evolving innovation while engaging and retaining staff. Krishna’s impressive leadership track record at Fortune 500 organizations offers achievements in elevating digital dexterity, optimizing enterprise value, advancing digital transformations, and accelerating cloud-first strategies.
Currently, Krishna is the Head of Digital, Data and Analytics (Chief Data and Analytics Officer and Head of Digital Data and Analytics) at Zoetis, the largest producer of medicine and vaccinations with $6+ billion in annual revenue. Recruited by the CEO and working in partnership with the chief information and digital officer, Krishna leads digital and analytic transformations that reshape the organization with a focused strategy, recruiting top talent, creating a clear vision, and building lasting partnerships with business unit leaders.
Before joining Zoetis in 2020, Krishna served as chief data officer and head of enterprise digital strategy at Bristol Myers Squibb for 5+ years. He established and built a world-class data and analytic organization from the ground up and advanced digital capabilities while expanding data leadership. Additionally, he served as an executive leader for global IT service provider relationships.
In prior roles, Krishna contributed by overseeing commercial data, leading business architecture and business intelligence, consulting on strategy, and serving in other progressive leadership roles. Krishna has served on the board of directors at Gartner Research, is a founding member of the IEEE Fair Trade Data Standards Group, and is a featured leader in the recently published book TRUST: The winning formula for digital leaders.
In addition to biopharma contributions, Krishna serves as a digital and data strategy adjunct faculty member at Carnegie Mellon University’s Executive Education Program. He mentors 15+ chief data officers and chief data analytics officers, is a sought-after industry forum speaker, and has produced several digital and analytic transformation publications.
Krishna’s education accomplishments include securing a Master of Business Administration degree from New York University’s Leonard N. Stern School of Business. Krishna completed his Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Electronics Engineering at the University of Kerala.
Elizabeth Bramson-Boudreau, CEO and Publisher, MIT Technology Review Elizabeth Bramson-Boudreau is the CEO and publisher of MIT Technology Review, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s independent media company.
Since Elizabeth took the helm of MIT Technology Review in mid-2017, the business has undergone a massive transformation from its previous position as a respected but niche print magazine to a widely read, multi-platform media brand with a global audience and a sustainable business. Under her leadership, MIT Technology Review has been lauded for its editorial authority, its best-in-class events, and its novel use of independent, original research to support both advertisers and readers.
Elizabeth has a 20-year background in building and running teams at world-leading media companies. She maintains a keen focus on new ways to commercialize media content to appeal to discerning, demanding consumers as well as B2B audiences.
Prior to joining MIT Technology Review, Elizabeth held a senior executive role at The Economist Group, where her leadership stretched across business lines and included mergers and acquisitions; editorial and product creation and modernization; sales; marketing; and events. Earlier in her career, she worked as a consultant advising technology firms on market entry and international expansion.
Elizabeth holds an executive MBA from the London Business School, an MSc from the London School of Economics, and a bachelor’s degree from Swarthmore College.
Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Think that your plastic is being recycled? Think again.
Douglas Main 15 Climate Tech Companies to Watch Amy Nordrum Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Minds of machines: The great AI consciousness conundrum Philosophers, cognitive scientists, and engineers are grappling with what it would take for AI to become conscious.
By Grace Huckins archive page Generative AI deployment: Strategies for smooth scaling Our global poll examines key decision points for putting AI to use in the enterprise.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
