old id = 2070
How Musicologists and Scientists Used AI to Complete Beethoven…
2005
https://blubrry.com/singularityhub/81745484/how-musicologists-and-scientists-used-ai-to-complete-beethovens-unfinished-10th-symphony

Podcast Hosting Hosting Plans Easy-to-use tools and plans for your podcast PowerPress Plugin No. 1 WordPress podcast publishing plugin Podcast Website Free, easy-to-use WordPress site Professional Podcast Hosting Tools for networks, businesses, & advanced creators Private Podcasting For designated ears only, available via app and desktop Sign Up for Podcast Hosting Start your free 30 day trial Podcast Statistics Podcast Statistics Analyze your audience: Geo, Apps & Devices, etc.
Audience Surveys Demographics directly from your listeners Sign Up Get free podcast statistics Podcast Growth Dynamic Ad Insertion Pre-mid-post roll ad campaign control Programmatic Advertising Earn money immediately for your show Pro-Production Pros to assist your podcast launch and regular publishing Podcast Directory Promote your podcast in the world’s largest directory Getting Started Getting Started Our getting started guides How-to-Podcast You’ve got lots to learn & we have lots of podcast knowledge to share Documentation Support for all of our tools, making podcasting easy from start to finish Connect Podcast Support Contact us 7 days a week, read documentation, or call us! Developers Resources to integrate with Blubrry Podcast Insider & Blog Subscribe to our show and learn from our weekly blog posts Community (FB page) Become part of the Blubrry online community About Blubrry We’ve been around since 2005 Socials Plans & Pricing Sign Up Manage Account Billing Sign out Podcaster Dashboard Podcast Hosting Podcast Statistics Podcast Growth Getting Started Connect Plans & Pricing Log In Sign Up Dashboard Hosting Plans Easy-to-use tools and plans for your podcast Professional Podcast Hosting Tools for networks, businesses, & advanced creators PowerPress Plugin No. 1 WordPress podcast publishing plugin Private Podcasting For designated ears only, available via app and desktop Podcast Website Free, easy-to-use WordPress site Sign Up for Podcast Hosting Start your free 30 day trial Podcast Statistics Analyze your audience: Geo, Apps & Devices, etc.
Audience Surveys Demographics directly from your listeners Sign Up Get free podcast statistics Dynamic Ad Insertion Pre-mid-post roll ad campaign control Podcast Directory Promote your podcast in the world’s largest directory Programmatic Advertising Earn money immediately for your show Pro-Production Pros to assist your podcast launch and regular publishing Getting Started Our getting started guides How-to-Podcast You’ve got lots to learn & we have lots of podcast knowledge to share Documentation Support for all of our tools, making podcasting easy from start to finish Podcast Support Contact us 7 days a week, read documentation, or call us! Developers Resources to integrate with Blubrry Podcast Insider & Blog Subscribe to our show and learn from our weekly blog posts Community (FB page) Become part of the Blubrry online community About Blubrry We’ve been around since 2005 Singularity Hub Daily How Musicologists and Scientists Used AI to Complete Beethoven’s Unfinished 10th Symphony When Ludwig van Beethoven died in 1827, he was three years removed from the completion of his Ninth Symphony, a work heralded by many as his magnum opus. He had started work on his 10th Symphony but, due to deteriorating health, wasn’t able to make much headway: All he left behind were some musical sketches.
Ever since then, Beethoven fans and musicologists have puzzled and lamented over what could have been. His notes teased at some magnificent reward, albeit one that seemed forever out of reach.
Now, thanks to the work of a team of music historians, musicologists, composers and computer scientists, Beethoven’s vision will come to life.
I presided over the artificial intelligence side of the project, leading a group of scientists at the creative AI startup Playform AI that taught a machine both Beethoven’s entire body of work and his creative process.
A full recording of Beethoven’s 10th Symphony is set to be released on Oct. 9, 2021, the same day as the world premiere performance scheduled to take place in Bonn, Germany—the culmination of a two-year-plus effort.
Past Attempts Hit a Wall Around 1817, the Royal Philharmonic Society in London commissioned Beethoven to write his ninth and 10th symphonies. Written for an orchestra, symphonies often contain four movements: the first is performed at a fast tempo, the second at a slower one, the third at a medium or fast tempo, and the last at a fast tempo.
Beethoven completed his Ninth Symphony in 1824, which concludes with the timeless “Ode to Joy.” But when it came to the 10th Symphony, Beethoven didn’t leave much behind, other than some musical notes and a handful of ideas he had jotted down.
There have been some past attempts to reconstruct parts of Beethoven’s 10th Symphony. Most famously, in 1988, musicologist Barry Cooper ventured to complete the first and second movements. He wove together 250 bars of music from the sketches to create what was, in his view, a production of the first movement that was faithful to Beethoven’s vision.
Yet the sparseness of Beethoven’s sketches made it impossible for symphony experts to go beyond that first movement.
Assembling the Team In early 2019, Dr. Matthias Röder, the director of the Karajan Institute, an organization in Salzburg, Austria, that promotes music technology, contacted me. He explained that he was putting together a team to complete Beethoven’s 10th Symphony in celebration of the composer’s 250th birthday. Aware of my work on AI-generated art, he wanted to know if AI would be able to help fill in the blanks left by Beethoven.
The challenge seemed daunting. To pull it off, AI would need to do something it had never done before. But I said I would give it a shot.
Röder then compiled a team that included Austrian composer Walter Werzowa. Famous for writing Intel’s signature bong jingle, Werzowa was tasked with putting together a new kind of composition that would integrate what Beethoven left behind with what the AI would generate. Mark Gotham, a computational music expert, led the effort to transcribe Beethoven’s sketches and process his entire body of work so the AI could be properly trained.
The team also included Robert Levin, a musicologist at Harvard University who also happens to be an incredible pianist. Levin had previously finished a number of incomplete 18th-century works by Mozart and Johann Sebastian Bach.
The Project Takes Shape In June 2019, the group gathered for a two-day workshop at Harvard’s music library. In a large room with a piano, a blackboard and a stack of Beethoven’s sketchbooks spanning most of his known works, we talked about how fragments could be turned into a complete piece of music and how AI could help solve this puzzle, while still remaining faithful to Beethoven’s process and vision.
The music experts in the room were eager to learn more about the sort of music AI had created in the past. I told them how AI had successfully generated music in the style of Bach. However, this was only a harm...
Terms Privacy Contact Support Podcast Statistics PowerPress Plugin Podcast Manual Developers About Careers Partners Affiliate Program
