Abundance360 by Peter Diamandis
2008
https://www.abundance360.com

Abundance360 Applications Are Now Open by Singularity University Home Membership Summit Apply Now Embrace the Future, Change the World Fuel your ambitions, accelerate your wealth, and amplify your global impact.
Abundance360 shapes your mindset and gives you access to world-changing technologies. Join a dynamic and private community of entrepreneurs, CEOs, and investors, who meet annually at our in-person Summit and quarterly during our virtual workshops.
Meet Our Members Mary Lou Jepsen, PhD CEO and Founder of Openwater (Openwater.cc) Past executive at Google, Facebook and MIT. Now CEO of Openwater using Laser Holography and echo to cure cancer, treat neuro-degenerative diseases, stroke and read/write the brain. Inventor with 250+ published patents and 50+ breakthrough products.
Rick Smith Founder & CEO of AXON Impact driven CEO & Founder of Axon, the inventor of the Taser. His Moonshot is to cut gun-related deaths between police and the public by 50%.
Rishi Khemka Chief Enjoyment Officer of ICT360 Tech-passionate pioneer in animation, gaming, and media. Has created a K12 Tech Education Platform focused on student centric learning.
Ani Chahal Honan Founder & Managing Partner of Yunity Business innovator with over $49B in company exits and acquisitions. Leverages advanced technologies and decentralized financial models to create mindful businesses, while also making significant social impact contributions in areas like rainforest protection, mental health, and the creator community.
Kurt Seidensticker Founder of Vital Proteins Background as a former NASA Space Shuttle astronaut trainer and astrophysicist in aerospace engineering. Founder of a multi-billion dollar supplement company.
Ken Corless CTO and Director Olympic Games Technology of Deloitte MIT-educated CTO with 30+ years of experience, now revolutionizing society at the intersection of sports and technology, where his passion and expertise combine to forge impactful, innovative solutions.
Maya Horgan Famodu Founder & Managing Director of Ingressive Capital A venture capital investor and entrepreneur, providing resources and support for brilliant individuals worldwide, particularly in Africa's tech industry Roger Hamilton Founder and CEO of Genius Group Genius Group is a global Edtech and education company with over 4.3 million students in over 200 countries. The company is developing a future focused, entrepreneur education system that spans from early learning, primary and secondary school, through to university, adult education and corporate training. Genius Group is a public listed company (NYSEAmerican:GNS) Ken Sim Mayor of Vancouver Founded Nurse Next Door, a franchise system that offers private home care to seniors. They now have over 200 franchise locations across US & Canada. Ken was elected as Mayor of Vancouver in 2022.
Sanja Kon CEO and Co-founder of Utrust Entrepreneur recognized for her strong support for diversity and inclusion; has led significant revenue growth in fintech and e-commerce sectors. Exited her crypto payments company UTRUST. Named Top 100 Women of Future by Mission Impact.
Chip Wilson Founder of Lululemon Founder of a globally recognized, $4.5-billion-a-year athleisure brand. Major donor to the Healthspan XPRIZE. His MTP is “Elevating the world from mediocrity to greatness".
Embrace the Future — Don't Fear It We will experience more change this coming decade than we have in the entire past century.
Converging exponential technologies like AI and biotech are disrupting and reinventing every industry and business model.
How do you surf this tsunami of change, and survive and thrive? The answer lies in your access to Knowledge and Community.
Knowledge about the breakthroughs and disruptions hurtling towards us in the next 2 to 5 years.
And a Community of carefully cultivated, fellow entrepreneurs running businesses valued from $10M to $10B. People who also believe that the day before something is a breakthrough it’s a crazy idea.
This is the essence of Abundance360: a year-round experience that includes an annual 3.5-day Summit, hands-on quarterly Workshops, and an uncompromising mission: to help you go BIG, create wealth, and uplift humanity.
“I think we need to be teaching people how to change the world.” - Larry Page, Co-Founder of Google Singularity University founding conference in 2008 “I think we need to be teaching people how to change the world.” - Larry Page, Co-Founder of Google Singularity University founding conference in 2008 Dr. Peter H. Diamandis Peter Diamandis is a serial entrepreneur, futurist, technologist, TED Speaker, New York Times Bestselling Author, and the founder of over 20 companies.
Fortune magazine has named Peter one of the World’s 50 Greatest Leaders.
He is also the Founder of the non-profit XPRIZE Foundation. Since its founding in 1994, XPRIZE has launched over $250 million of competitions to create radical breakthroughs that benefit humanity. Most recently, Peter teamed up with Elon Musk to launch a $100 million XPRIZE focused on combating climate change through gigaton carbon removal.
Peter’s life mission is to empower entrepreneurs to create a hopeful, compelling and abundant future for humanity.
He created Abundance360 to empower a select group of entrepreneurs, investors, and CEOs to harness the latest technologies, create wealth, and solve significant global problems.
Origin of The Singularity Group Founding of Singularity University In 2008, Peter Diamandis and Ray Kurzweil stood up in front of an audience of the Silicon Valley elite, the CEOs and venture capitalists creating our exponential future. Peter and Ray proposed the creation of a new University that gathered top entrepreneurs from around the planet to learn about AI, Robotics, 3D Printing, Biotech, AV/VR, and Networks and how these technologies could be used to solve the world’s biggest problems.
Larry Page, then Co-founder and President of Google stood up near the end of the first day and gave an impassioned impromptu speech supporting the Founding of Singularity and its mission: “I now have a very simple metric I use: are you working on something that can change the world? Yes or no? The answer for 99.99999 percent of people is ‘No.’ I think we need to be training people on how to change the world.
Obviously, technologies are the way to do that. That’s what we’ve seen in the past; that’s what's driven all the change.” Today Singularity University (known as the Singularity Group) has grown into a global platform for entrepreneurs and executives. During the past 14 years, since SU’s founding, Singularity has graduated over 20,000 exponential entrepreneurs in more than 100 countries.
In 2013, Peter created Abundance360 as a year-round, leadership program for exponential entrepreneurs and leaders. A360 was designed to be SU’s highest level program led by its founder (more on A360 below).
Our 10 Core Beliefs 1) We believe that an entrepreneur’s mindset is their greatest asset.
2) We believe that your Massive Transformative Purpose (MTP) can transform an industry and solve a Grand Challenge.
3) We believe every entrepreneur should have a Moonshot they are passionate about implementing, enabled by their MTP.
4) We believe in the power of entrepreneurs to solve the world's biggest problems.
5) We believe it is possible to create wealth while at the same time uplifting humanity.
6) We believe that, by the end of this decade (2030), we will be extending the healthy human lifespan by decades.
7) We believe that every organization and entrepreneur must be fully imersed in AI (as soon as possible) to survive and thrive in the decade ahead.
8) We believe that this is the most extraordinary time in human history to be alive.
9) We believe that “the day before something is a breakthrough, it’s a crazy idea” – so embracing crazy ideas is critical to innovation.
10) We believe that exponential technologies create abundance.
Origin of Abundance360’s 25-year Journey In 2013, after the publication of Peter’s New York Times Bestselling books Abundance and BOLD , Peter was at Joe Polish’s Genius Network, to speak about his newest program (Abundance360) to a group of entrepreneurs and marketers.
Dan Sullivan, Co-founder of Strategic Coach and Peter’s personal coach, pulled him aside saying, “Peter, if you really want to make the A360 program stick, why don’t you tell the entrepreneurs in the room that you’ll be running this program for the next 25 years?” Like so many great ideas, it instantly clicked. A360 transformed into a 25-year journey – a program taking place between 2013 and 2038, guiding members through to what Ray Kurzweil calls the “singularity.” So, what will the world look like by 2038? Probably as different as our world today looked from the world 123 years ago in 1900. Imagine a world of ubiquitous superhuman AI, quantum computing, and brain computer interfaces connecting your mind to the cloud. Imagine a world of trillions of sensors allowing you to know anything, anytime, anywhere. A world where biological human aging is reversible and nanotechnology allows us to create microscopic machinery. Literally a future beyond our imagination.
Past A360 Faculty Cathie Wood Founder, CEO, CIO ARKInvest Eric Schmidt Co-Founder Schmidt Futures Martine Rothblatt Founder, CEO, Chairman United Therapeutics Corp Joe Gebbia Co-Founder Airbnb Marc Benioff Co-Founder, Chairman, Co-CEO Salesforce Sam Altman Co-Founder & CEO OpenAI Arianna Huffington Co-Founder & CEO The Huffington Post Chad Hurley Former CEO YouTube Steve Jurvetson Co-Founder, Managing Partner Future Ventures Ray Kurzweil American Inventor & Futurist Kurzweil Technologies Peggy Johnson CEO Magic Leap Kai-Fu Lee AI Expert, Former President Google China Tony Robbins #1 Life & Business Strategist David Sinclair Co-Director, Center for Biology of Aging Research Harvard Medical School Emad Mostaque Founder & CEO Stability.ai Jacqueline Novogratz Founder & CEO Acumen Palmer Luckey Founder Anduril Andrew Yang Co-Chair Forward Party Amber Straughn, PhD Astrophysicist JWST Sal Khan Founder & CEO Khan Academy Cathie Wood Founder, CEO, CIO ARKInvest Eric Schmidt Co-Founder Schmidt Futures Martine Rothblatt Founder, CEO, Chairman United Therapeutics Corp Joe Gebbia Co-Founder Airbnb Marc Benioff Co-Founder, Chairman, Co-CEO Salesforce Sam Altman Co-Founder & CEO OpenAI Arianna Huffington Co-Founder & CEO The Huffington Post Chad Hurley Former CEO YouTube Steve Jurvetson Co-Founder, Managing Partner Future Ventures Ray Kurzweil American Inventor & Futurist Kurzweil Technologies Peggy Johnson CEO Magic Leap Kai-Fu Lee AI Expert, Former President Google China Tony Robbins #1 Life & Business Strategist David Sinclair Co-Director, Center for Biology of Aging Research Harvard Medical School Emad Mostaque Founder & CEO Stability.ai Jacqueline Novogratz Founder & CEO Acumen Palmer Luckey Founder Anduril Andrew Yang Co-Chair Forward Party Amber Straughn, PhD Astrophysicist JWST Sal Khan Founder & CEO Khan Academy A360 Program Overview At its core, Abundance360 is a year-round program for entrepreneurs, investors, and executives who want to create positive change. It offers them a unique opportunity to unlock their potential and access the latest technologies, tools, and connections needed to succeed in today's world.
In addition to the Summit, Workshops, and Masterminds, members benefit from the support of a close-knit community of like-minded individuals who share the goal of creating a better future for humanity.
Summit Workshops Masterminds Member Hub Member Matching Membership Tiers Abundance360 sells out in advance. All prices are subject to increase based on demand.
Global Virtual Membership $10,000 Learn more: video from Peter Remote participation at the Annual A360 Summit from the comfort of your home PLUS everything listed above.
Access to AbundanceHub; includes A360 Community Directory, resources and AI tools to enhance your membership experience.
Curated member introductions & meetings set up throughout the year driven by a proprietary matching algorithm​.
Apply Now In-Person Membership $23,500 Learn more: video from Peter In-person participation at the Annual A360 Summit in beautiful Los Angeles, CA.
Access to AbundanceHub; includes A360 Community Directory, resources and AI tools to enhance your membership experience.
Additional half-day program Access to the Tech Hub and Longevity Hub: Live demos from top tech companies you need to know about Curated member introductions & meetings set up throughout the year driven by a proprietary matching algorithm Livestream Summit access for 5 of your colleagues or friends Apply Now Patron Membership $45,000 Learn more: video from Peter In-person participation at the Annual A360 Summit in beautiful Los Angeles, CA.
Access to AbundanceHub; includes A360 Community Directory, resources and AI tools to enhance your membership experience.
Additional half-day program Curated member introductions & meetings set up throughout the year driven by a proprietary matching algorithm 8-hour closed-door "Mastermind" session with Peter Private lunch during A360 Livestream Summit access for your employee base (500 people) Longer Implementation Workshops with a smaller group Apply Now Membership Tiers Abundance360 sells out in advance. All prices are subject to increase based on demand.
Global Virtual Membership $10,000 Learn more: video from Peter In-Person Membership $23,500 Learn more: video from Peter Patron Membership $45,000 Learn more: video from Peter Remote participation at the Annual A360 Summit from the comfort of your home PLUS everything listed above.
In-person participation at the Annual A360 Summit in beautiful Los Angeles, CA.
In-person participation at the Annual A360 Summit in beautiful Los Angeles, CA.
Access to AbundanceHub; includes A360 Community Directory, resources and AI tools to enhance your membership experience.
Access to AbundanceHub; includes A360 Community Directory, resources and AI tools to enhance your membership experience.
Access to AbundanceHub; includes A360 Community Directory, resources and AI tools to enhance your membership experience.
Curated member introductions & meetings set up throughout the year driven by a proprietary matching algorithm​ PLUS: PLUS: Additional half-day program Additional half-day program Access to the Tech Hub and Longevity Hub: Live demos from top tech companies you need to know about Access to the Tech Hub and Longevity Hub: Live demos from top tech companies you need to know about Curated member introductions & meetings set up throughout the year driven by a proprietary matching algorithm Curated member introductions & meetings set up throughout the year driven by a proprietary matching algorithm Livestream Summit access for 5 of your colleagues or friends 8-hour closed-door "Mastermind" session with Peter Private lunch during A360 Livestream Summit access for your employee base (500 people) Longer Implementation Workshops with a smaller group Apply Now Apply Now Apply Now Define Your Purpose, Take a Moonshot Your Abundance360 Journey “Life is who you go through life with…” You’re the average of the five people you spend the most time with. In addition to gaining the right knowledge, curating your Community is one of the most important investments you can make as an entrepreneur.
If you want to think BIG and change the world, hang out with people who have a Massive Transformative Purpose (MTP) and Moonshots.
An MTP is a clear statement that guides you, empowers you, and helps me decide what to focus on. It’s best summed up by the quote: “Find something you would die for—and live for it.” Your MTP is also the canvas upon which you’ll create your Moonshot: creating a 10X improvement in your life, in your business, and in the world.
After your first year as an Abundance360 member, you will have created an MTP and you will be on your way toward pursuing your Moonshot.
Together, we can uplift humanity.
We made a 10-day mini course to help you craft your MTP. It’s 1 email a day for 10 days. Over 10,000 people have made their MTP using this course. You can start that here.
Craft your MTP Want to hear from Peter? He publishes 2 blogs a week about technologies that are creating an abundant world.
2023 Summit Highlight Video Clips from A360 2023 So who will you meet this year? What partnerships will you form? What will you create? About Membership Summit Explore More Nominate FAQ Terms Peter Diamandis Podcast
