Kai-Fu Lee, a former Google China CEO, predicts big banks will fall first to artificial intelligence.
2017
https://qz.com/984709/kai-fu-lee-a-former-google-china-ceo-predicts-big-banks-will-fall-first-to-artificial-intelligence

The A.V. Club Deadspin Gizmodo Jalopnik Jezebel Kotaku Quartz The Root The Takeout The Onion The Inventory Send us a tip! Home Latest Business News Money & Markets Tech & Innovation Lifestyle Leadership ✉️ Emails 🎧 Podcasts Home Latest Business News Money & Markets Tech & Innovation Lifestyle Leadership ✉️ Emails 🎧 Podcasts A famous venture capitalist predicts big banks will fall first to artificial intelligence Published Wall Street will be one of the first and largest industries to be automated by artificial intelligence, predicts Kai-Fu Lee, China’s most famous venture capitalist and former Microsoft and Google executive. Lenders, money managers, and analysts—any jobs that involve crunching numbers to estimate a return—are at risk.
“Banks have the curse of the baggage they have, like Kodak letting go of film,” Lee says. “Their DNA is all wrong.” Lee’s VC firm, Sinovation Ventures, has started to invest in this space by financing Smart Finance Group, a company which algorithmically determines eligibility for payday loans. Lee expects the company’s algorithms to pay out 30 million loans this year, giving the company scale that would never have been achievable when hiring humans to do the same job. That core technology would be easily applicable to other kinds of loans and financial decisions.
As for the big banks that dominate now, the venture capitalist predicts they will be outmaneuvered by smaller startups able to deploy new technology much faster.
Lee has so much trust in AI’s financial prowess that he’s testing three algorithmic trading systems for his own wealth, which trade currencies, arbitrage, and a portfolio of its own choosing.
“I don’t trade with humans anymore,” Lee tells Quartz.
His gamble has paid off: Lee reports that these systems have given an 8x return over his human personal banker, in an interview today with Quartz editor-in-chief Kevin Delaney.
But where small startups might have the ability to deploy their AI systems quickly, large financial institutions have the ability to work at a much larger scale and offer much more appealing compensation packages to computer science talent. JPMorgan has assigned 9% of its revenue this year to technology development, reports Bloomberg , channelling massive resources to hire and develop financial artificial intelligence systems.
“We’re willing to invest to stay ahead of the curve, even if in the final analysis some of that money will go to product or a service that wasn’t needed,” JPMorgan CFO Marianne Lake told a conference audience last summer.
Latest Videos UAW contract a victory for autoworkers, but not consumers | What’s next for GM? Best careers for 2024 | Your Wallet Why you should load up on industrial and materials companies now | Smart Investing How an inflation sensitive ETF could protect you in a coming recession | Smart Investing Best rewards and cash back credit cards | Your Wallet Why the future of streaming may not involve Netflix or Disney+ | What's next for streaming? How to prepare for the coming recession | Smart Investing Is a hot economy bad for investors? | Smart Investing How to maximize your winter travel budget | Your Wallet Winning portfolio moves amidst a market downturn | Smart Investing The Israel-Hamas conflict's impact on Fed rate hike strategies | Smart Investing Should you buy McDonald's and Caterpillar stock right now? Why investors should consider staying in cash this October How will the market react to the impending government shutdown? Why a tightening of credit conditions could lead to a weak economy What's next for X (Twitter)? | Walter Isaacson Playlist How 15 years of QE might help the US avoid recession now Where are stock valuations headed in the second half of 2023? The top 3 reasons to invest right now in European stocks Are we in a bull market or a bear market for stocks? Is it time to sell your tech stocks? "AI and tech aren't the whole market": The case for a pullback in stocks The Fed's focus on a 2% inflation target is "a disaster for the middle class" Why stay bullish on stocks in 2023? The AI boom Gauging the Fed on rates, seeing upside for Apple shares Who's betting right on interest rates: Stock or bond investors? Debt ceiling deal proposal: "What the markets wanted to see" Reasons to de-risk your portfolio right now The US debt ceiling fight is a short-term phenomenon for markets US debt default risk, EPS contraction: How markets will react Regional banks and the US debt ceiling: Quartz Smart Investing US GDP, the debt ceiling, tech earnings: Quartz Smart Investing Reworking Work How to make in-person and remote work productive for hybrid employees Gathering hybrid employees with intention Employees say pay equity is 13X more important than fair pay. Here's how companies can make progress The managers role in closing the pay gap Why is pay equity still an issue? When the coach needs a coach Finding your zone of genius at work How an executive-coach-in-residence can boost your company performance How HubSpot created intentional connection for its teams When a third of its employees didn't feel connected at work, here's how Hubspot took action How to close the employee satisfaction gap, according to Hubspot Change stalled? How to unite different teams around a goal Improving company process? How a framework can help The secret to getting employees engaged at work begins with this step The key to loving your job again is seeing it like a patchwork quilt How to embrace cognitive diversity as a business advantage How Ultranauts built a 75% neurodiverse workforce—and what it learned about hiring Quartz on Creativity Kyra Sedgwick on creativity: the Quartz interview Ana Gasteyer on creativity: The Quartz interview Samantha Bee on creativity: the Quartz interview Matthew Rhys on creativity: the Quartz interview Billy Crudup on creativity: the Quartz interview Alison Brie on Creativity: the Quartz interview Alan Cumming on Creativity: the Quartz interview Leadership How to make in-person and remote work productive for hybrid employees Gathering hybrid employees with intention Employees say pay equity is 13X more important than fair pay. Here's how companies can make progress The managers role in closing the pay gap Why is pay equity still an issue? When the coach needs a coach Finding your zone of genius at work How an executive-coach-in-residence can boost your company performance How HubSpot created intentional connection for its teams When a third of its employees didn't feel connected at work, here's how Hubspot took action How to close the employee satisfaction gap, according to Hubspot Change stalled? How to unite different teams around a goal Improving company process? How a framework can help The secret to getting employees engaged at work begins with this step The key to loving your job again is seeing it like a patchwork quilt How to make your company actually accountable to its values 3 ways to negotiate your return to the office How to embrace cognitive diversity as a business advantage How Ultranauts built a 75% neurodiverse workforce—and what it learned about hiring Is your oysgezoomt causing stress? What to say to a coworker who is grieving Hannah Fry on the career pivot that took her from fluid dynamics to math and human behavior How to make a career pivot in four short steps Why you should keep your own scoreboard at work 📬 Sign up for the Daily Brief Our free, fast, and fun briefing on the global economy, delivered every weekday morning.
