old id = 782
OII | People
2014
https://www.oii.ox.ac.uk/people/dphil-students

Research Research Section Home Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Section Home Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People Section Home OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events Section Home News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Section Home Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library Research Research Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library OII > People > People Show: Find a person: DPhil Students DPhil in Social Data Science Hubert Au DPhil Student Hubert is a DPhil student at the OII, interested in computational propaganda and social movements online.
Hannah Bailey DPhil Student Hannah Bailey studied for an MSc in the Social Science of the Internet at the Oxford Internet Institute. Research interests include China-US relations and China’s use of online censorship, with a focus on automated content analysis.
Andrew Bean DPhil Student Andrew holds a B.S. in Applied Mathematics from Yale University and an MSc in Social Data Science from the OII. He is a Clarendon Scholar and was previously a Thouron Prize winner at the University of Cambridge (Pembroke College).
Basak Bozkurt DPhil Student Basak is a doctoral student at the OII.
Yixin Chen DPhil Student Yixin is a DPhil student in Social Data Science. Her research focuses on examining online communication on social media sites, and designing social systems to better support it.
Calvin Yixiang Cheng DPhil Student Calvin is a PhD student in computational communication research. His works centre around misinformation diffusion and mutation in multilingual contexts and applying LLMs to measure human values.
Elizaveta Chernenko DPhil Student Lisa is a DPhil student at the OII.
Michael Collyer DPhil Student Michael is a doctoral candidate at the Oxford Internet Institute.
Dr Djavan De Clercq DPhil Student Djavan is a part-time DPhil student conducting research at the intersection of agriculture and climatic change. He is currently a consultant at McKinsey & Company.
Giuliano Formisano DPhil Student Giuliano Formisano is a PhD Candidate in Social Data Science at the Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford, as an ESRC Scholar.
Anna George DPhil Student Anna George is a Social Data Science doctoral student who uses computational approaches to study online political behaviour. Her research focuses on the message diffusion of alternative communities such as hate groups and political extremists.
Kobi Hackenburg DPhil Student Kobi is a DPhil student in Social Data Science and Clarendon Scholar at the OII. His research evaluates the capabilities of AI systems to influence the political public sphere, with a particular emphasis on personalized large language models.
Thomas Hakman DPhil Student Thomas holds a joint honours degree in Liberal Arts & Sciences from the University of Amsterdam and VU University, where he combined Cognitive Neuroscience with digital media studies. He has experience in clinical research and the telecom industry.
Jazmia Henry DPhil Student Jazmia Henry is a part-time DPhil candidate for the Social Data Science programme at the University of Oxford. Her research interests include Explainable AI, Large Language Models, AI Alignment and AI Ethics.
Kathryn Hymes DPhil Student Kathryn is a technologist, computational linguist, and game designer. She studies how to build digital spaces for healthier communication and how play can contribute to a better, more humane life both online and offline.
Lujain Ibrahim DPhil Student Lujain is a DPhil student in Social Data Science at the OII. Her research sits at the intersection of AI governance and human-centred computing, particularly examining how user autonomy and control are undermined in human-AI interactions.
Prathm Juneja DPhil Student Prathm Juneja is a student on the DPhil in Social Data Science, and was previously a student on the MSc in Social Data Science.
Hannah Rose Kirk DPhil Student Hannah is a DPhil student in Social Data Science at the OII. Her research focuses on data-centric techniques in AI development for the detection of online harms.
Felix Krones DPhil Student Felix is a DPhil student at the OII with an MSc in Industrial Engineering and Management, and has over 2 years of work experience as analytics consultant at McKinsey & Company.
Linda Li DPhil Student Linda is a DPhil student at the OII interested in social network, agent-based model and contentious politics.
Jabez Magomere DPhil Student Jabez is a DPhil student in Social Data Science at the OII. His research focuses on misinformation and developing automated fact-checking methods for misinformation in multiple modalities and across multilingual contexts.
Maria del Mar Carpanelli DPhil Student Mar Carpanelli is a student on the DPhil in Social Data Science and a Data Scientist & Economist at LinkedIn.
Harry Mayne DPhil Student Harry is a DPhil student at the OII. His research focuses on the application of AI in healthcare systems.
Cailean Osborne DPhil Student Cailean is a DPhil candidate in Social Data Science, whose research interests concern the political economy of open source software and the digital commons at large.
Dr Guy Parsons DPhil Student Guy is a Shirley Scholar at the OII, an Intensive Care doctor, and the Clinical Lead for a Health AI business at Deloitte. He researches AI-enabled healthcare systems.
Alexandra Pavliuc DPhil Student Alexandra is a DPhil candidate at the OII and a researcher on the Programme on Democracy and Technology studying the gendered dimensions of political communication during times of conflict.
Jessica Rodrigues Da Silva DPhil Student Jessica is a DPhil student in Social Data Science, researching representational biases in language models. She holds an MSc in Computer Science and works as a Lead Data Scientist at Springer Nature.
Marcel Schliebs DPhil Student Marcel is a doctoral candidate in Social Data Science and Researcher at the Computational Propaganda Project. His research is at the intersection of political science, statistics and computer science, with a focus on elections and disinformation.
Matt Sharpe DPhil Student Matthew is a part-time DPhil student in Social Data Science, researching how people form habits with online media. He works as a staff data scientist at Spotify.
Dylan Thurgood DPhil Student Dylan Thurgood is a student on the DPhil in Social Data Science and was previously a student on the MSc in Social Data Science. His research focuses on opinion formation and collective intelligence.
Manuel Tonneau DPhil Student Manuel is a DPhil student in Social Data Science. He is broadly interested in using Natural Language Processing to extract policy-relevant information from social media data.
Tarah Wheeler DPhil Student Tarah Wheeler is an information security executive, social scientist in the area of international conflict, author, and poker player. She is CEO of information security company Red Queen Dynamics.
Yushi Yang DPhil Student Yushi is a DPhil student in Social Data Science at the OII. She is broadly interested in developing multimodal AI models for healthcare and social science applications.
Juliette Zaccour DPhil Student Juliette's research interests lie within Human-Centred Data Science, algorithmic bias and social justice.
DPhil in Information, Communication & the Social Sciences Kate Joynes-Burgess DPhil Student Kate is a Wellcome Trust scholar and doctoral researcher at the OII's Programme on Democracy & Technology (DemTech). Her research project deploys mixed methods to explore the influence of misinformation on vaccine hesitancy in the UK.
Abid Abdurrahman Adonis DPhil Student Abid A. Adonis is a DPhil student at OII, interested in Digital Sovereignty, the Politics of Cyberspace, and the intersection between International Relations and technology.
Mahsa Alimardani DPhil Student Mahsa is a DPhil student at the OII. Her research focuses on political communication and information controls in Iran.
Nicole (Yung) Au DPhil Student Nicole/Yung is a DPhil at the OII. Her research is interested in technology infrastructures and vertical/aerial surveillance.
Liam Bekirsky DPhil Student Liam is a doctoral student at the Oxford Internet Institute whose research focuses on communities of practice, from hobby and amateur groups to professional networks, which often use digital technologies to organise their knowledge-making activities.
Sophie Bennani-Taylor DPhil Student Sophie is an ESRC-funded DPhil student in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences. Her doctoral research examines how digital identification platforms shape access to rights, resources and political participation.
Cassidy Bereskin DPhil Student Cassidy is a DPhil student and Clarendon Scholar at the OII. Her research focuses on the efficacy of cognitive interventions for combating misinformation and restoring online trust.
Chris Blex DPhil Student Chris was a DPhil student at the OII and a doctoral student at the Alan Turing Institute.
Kayla Blomquist DPhil Student Kayla Blomquist is a DPhil researcher at the OII focused on international AI governance approaches. She is the Co-founder and Director of the Oxford China Policy Lab and previously served as a US Diplomat to the People's Republic of China (2018-2021) Tomas Borsa DPhil Student Tomas’ doctoral project investigates the social histories and future imaginaries of the Internet on Haida Gwaii.
Rutendo Chabikwa DPhil Student Rutendo Chabikwa is a DPhil student at the OII. Her research applies a gender lens to understanding the effects of digital media on political participation in postcolonial contexts.
Chloe Chadwick DPhil Student Chloe is a Clarendon Scholar researching digital government innovation. She holds an MPhil in Public Policy from the University of Cambridge and has held roles in the government, private and third sectors focussed on civil service reform.
Roland Chen DPhil Student Roland looks at posthumanism in the context of self-tracking wearables and the environment. He is happy to connect with anyone interested in these topics. He loves to cook, surf, and dive.
Brianna Cho DPhil Student Brianna Cho is a part-time DPhil Information, Communication and the Social Sciences student.
Clementine Collett DPhil Student Clementine is a DPhil student at the Oxford Internet Institute. Her research focuses on AI and gender.
Christopher Crum DPhil Student As an M.Sc. by Research student, Chris studies expectations of privacy in digital spaces and how law in the U.S., EU, and U.K. should accommodate/conform/shape those expectations.
Amanda Curtis DPhil Student Amanda is a DPhil student researching video games, player creativity, and knowledge practices.
Ziyu Deng DPhil Student Ziyu Deng is a DPhil student in Information, Communication, and Social Sciences. She is interested in the relationship between offline social environments and the online reproduction and propagation of public opinions.
Blake DiCosola DPhil Student Blake is a graduate of the OII and researches digital interventions that encourage consumers to make healthier decisions in online shopping contexts.
Isabel Goddard DPhil Student Isabel is a DPhil student at the OII studying dating app design.
Licinia Güttel DPhil Student Licinia is a DPhil student and Clarendon scholar. Her research focuses on the intersection of public opinion and digital politics, and analyses positions of citizens and political actors concerning digital issues.
William Hawkins DPhil Student Will has an interest in algorithmic fairness, explainability, and wider AI ethics. He currently works in DeepMind's Ethics team, and was previously a consultant within PwC's Sustainability & Climate Change team.
Laura Herman DPhil Student Laura is a 1+3 DPhil student at the OII and an Experience Research Lead at Adobe. Her research at both institutions aims to unpack how technology-based design affordances influence artistic output and creativity.
Mercedes Horner DPhil Student Mercedes Horner's doctoral research examines bias in the design process of EdTech algorithms and data capture in UK higher education.
Josh Jaffe DPhil Student Josh is a member of the World Economic Forum's Partnership Against Cyber Crime. He is also the President of the Global Center for Cyber Security and serves as a frequent advisor to technology startups and cyber-focused investors.
Srujana Katta DPhil Student Srujana is a doctoral student at the OII and a member of the Fairwork Project. Her research focusses on digital labour, migration, and resistance.
Jude Khouja DPhil Student Jude’s research focuses on building computational and machine learning models that can acquire and demonstrate social cognition skills by borrowing from principles in Psychology, Social Sciences and Cognition.
Su Min Lee DPhil Student MSc Thesis: Political participation in non-political online communities: The role of sense of community in fostering political participation Supervisor: Dr Vili Lehdonvirta Completed: 2014 Claire Leibowicz DPhil Student Claire Leibowicz is a DPhil candidate and the Head of AI and Media Integrity at the Partnership on AI. Her research is generously funded by the OII Shirley Scholarship.
Diyi Liu DPhil Student Diyi's research aims to understand how digital networks boost the power of online communities, influence the way that social actors exchange meaning with each other, and ultimately reshape people's social lives.
Maggie Mustaklem DPhil Student Maggie’s doctoral research focuses on AI and creativity. She is incorporating visual art as a part of a practice-based methodological approach to understand how creatives find inspiration through algorithmic image search.
Fattori McKenna DPhil Student Fattori's research focuses on the politics of blockchain in the arts & heritage sector.
Jess Morley DPhil Student Jess Morley is a DPhil candidate researching the cultural, social, ethical, technical and regulatory factors influencing the development, deployment and use of digital, data and AI within healthcare settings.
Amy Munz DPhil Student Amy is a DPhil candidate. She researches empathic communication with digital audiences.
Lisa-Maria Neudert DPhil Student Lisa-Maria Neudert is a DPhil Student researching platform governance and regulation in response to mis/disinformation.
Sanna Ojanperä DPhil Student Sanna is a DPhil Student at the OII and also a doctoral student at the Alan Turing Institute, where she leads the Data and Inequality interest group together with her supervisor Mark Graham.
Samantha Pay DPhil Student Samantha Jane Pay is a specialist in violence against women and girl’s policy and practice. Her research focuses on the concept of an ‘algorithmic female’ and the ethics of personalisation culture.
Mimmi Piikkilä DPhil Student Mimmi's DPhil research focuses on the political economy of public sector artificial intelligence projects. She's interested in how technology is reshaping economic structures of societies.
Anne Ploin DPhil Student Alongside work on AI, Anne’s doctoral research is in the sociology of knowledge, focusing on the online work of independent commissions and their role in British politics.
Marie-Therese Png DPhil Student Marie-Therese is a British, Afro-Caribbean and Chinese-Singaporean individual whose DPhil Research lives at the intersections of technology justice, environmental justice and decoloniality.
Nayana Prakash DPhil Student Nayana is a DPhil researcher at the Oxford Internet Institute. Her research focuses on purpose-built storytelling platforms in India and the changing nature of writing online. In her work, she blends ethnographic methodology with literary practice.
Philipp Riederle DPhil Student Philipp researches instruments to distribute the power of digital platform monopolists. He analyses the effects of vertical separation and interoperability in decentralised platform ecosystems.
Joanna Rivera Carlisle DPhil Student Joanna’s research focuses on junctures between mobile Augmented Reality environments, critical heritage visualisations and post/decolonial historiography.
Huw Roberts DPhil Student Huw Roberts is a DPhil student at the OII. His research focuses on the development and export of Chinese AI governance initiatives.
Lily Rodel DPhil Student Lily is a DPhil student at the Oxford Internet Institute. Her research focuses on gender inequality and remote work.
Nancy Salem DPhil Student Nancy is a DPhil student at the OII. Her research concerns the public perception and user experience of emerging technologies.
Odysseas Sclavounis DPhil Student Odysseas Sclavounis is a DPhil student at the OII and also at the Alan Turing Institute. His research focuses on the governance of public blockchains, specifically Bitcoin and Ethereum.
Felix M. Simon DPhil Student Felix is a OII DPhil Student, a research assistant at the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism and a Fellow at Columbia University's Tow Center. As a Leverhulme Doctoral Scholar he is researching AI in journalism and the news industry.
Charlie Smith DPhil Student Charles is a doctoral student at the Oxford Internet Institute. His research focuses on the ethics and politics of federated digital identity systems.
Sarah Stewart DPhil Student Sarah Stewart is a DPhil student at the OII.
Jake Stone DPhil Student Jake is a PhD candidate in philosophy with the Australian National University and a Recognised Student at the Oxford Internet Institute.
Andreas Tsamados DPhil Student Andreas' doctoral research centres on human control of AI applications within national security and defence. His research is supported by the OII, and the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl).
Thomas Vogl DPhil Student Thomas Vogl works at the intersection of public administration, organizational studies, and digital change. His thesis explores public sector organizational memory in the digital age.
James Ward IV DPhil Student James is a DPhil student at the OII.
Eugene Yi DPhil Student Eugene is a creative executive in the media technology sector who is passionate about data rights and emergent governance systems in digital spaces.
Marta Ziosi Research Assistant, DPhil Student Marta Ziosi’s research revolves around the use of data-driven risk-assessment tools in the Criminal Justice System. She focuses on alternative methods in machine learning to centre policies around prevention, rather than prediction, of crime.
1 St Giles, Oxford, OX1 3JS, UK +44 (0)1865 287210 General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk FOLLOW US: INFORMATION FOR: Prospective students Alumni Job seekers Media Policy makers We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings.
Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies Google Analytics Privacy Overview This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies moove_gdrp_popup - a cookie that saves your preferences for cookie settings. Without this cookie, the screen offering you cookie options will appear on every page you visit.
This cookie remains on your computer for 365 days, but you can adjust your preferences at any time by clicking on the "Cookie settings" link in the website footer.
Please note that if you visit the Oxford University website, any cookies you accept there will appear on our site here too, this being a subdomain. To control them, you must change your cookie preferences on the main University website.
Enable or Disable Cookies Google Analytics This website uses Google Tags and Google Analytics to collect anonymised information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping these cookies enabled helps the OII improve our website.
Enabling this option will allow cookies from: Google Analytics - tracking visits to the ox.ac.uk and oii.ox.ac.uk domains These cookies will remain on your website for 365 days, but you can edit your cookie preferences at any time via the "Cookie Settings" button in the website footer.
Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! GDPR Cookie Compliance
