old id = 1788
First Order | Wookieepedia | Fandom
2015
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/First_Order

Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Trending Ahsoka Ahsoka Tano Sabine Wren Morgan Elsbeth Hera Syndulla Baylan Skoll Shin Hati Marrok Huyang Search for Ezra Grand Admiral Thrawn 40 years of Return of the Jedi From a Certain Point of View anthology One-shot comics Star Wars Outlaws Latest television series The Acolyte Ahsoka The Bad Batch The Mandalorian Season Three Skeleton Crew Visions Volume 2 Young Jedi Adventures The High Republic The Eye of Darkness Shadows of Starlight The High Republic comics (2023) The High Republic Adventures (2023) Ongoing comics Dark Droids Bounty Hunters series Darth Vader series Doctor Aphra series Star Wars series Shadows of Starlight The High Republic (2023) The High Republic Adventures (2023) Hyperspace Stories Star Wars Skywalker saga The Phantom Menace Attack of the Clones Revenge of the Sith A New Hope The Empire Strikes Back Return of the Jedi The Force Awakens The Last Jedi The Rise of Skywalker Standalone films Canon The Clone Wars Rogue One Solo Lando Legends Caravan of Courage The Battle for Endor The Star Wars Holiday Special Live-action series The Mandalorian The Book of Boba Fett Obi-Wan Kenobi Andor Ahsoka The Acolyte Skeleton Crew Animated series Canon The Clone Wars Rebels Resistance The Bad Batch Tales of the Jedi Young Jedi Adventures Legends Droids Ewoks Clone Wars The Clone Wars Other Jedi Temple Challenge Visions Games Board games Card games Miniatures games Roleplaying games Real-world attractions Video games X-Wing/TIE Fighter Dark Forces/Jedi Knight Knights of the Old Republic Battlefront The Force Unleashed The Old Republic Jedi: Fallen Order LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga Virtual reality games Literature Audiobooks Comics Cookbooks Game books Magazines Music books Reference books Short stories Novels Young readers Navigation Articles Content A-Z Status articles Featured articles Good articles Comprehensive articles Browse articles by category Culture Droids Events The Force Individuals Locations Organizations Species Technology Behind the scenes Random article Audio files Images Lists Timelines Community About Wookieepedia FAQ Become a Wookieepedian! Administration Policies Attribution Canon Copyright Layout Guide Manual of Style Naming Neutral point of view Notability Sourcing Spoilers Wookieepedia in other languages Forums Consensus track Discussions Senate Hall Trash compactor Wookieepedian of the Month Requests for user rights WookieeProjects By individual articles Project Defender Project Stardust By subject matter Astrography Chiss Comics Creators Fantasy Flight Games Galaxy's Edge Knights of the Old Republic LEGO Novels Pride Resistance The Clone Wars The High Republic The Old Republic Women Contact Administrators' noticeboard Discord Editing Tutorials Editing sandbox Things to do Status article nominations Featured article nominations Good article nominations Comprehensive article nominations Status article reviews Featured article reviews Good article reviews Comprehensive article reviews Recent Changes Statistics FANDOM Fan Central BETA Games Anime Movies TV Video Explore Wikis Community Central Start a Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Trending Ahsoka Ahsoka Tano Sabine Wren Morgan Elsbeth Hera Syndulla Baylan Skoll Shin Hati Marrok Huyang Search for Ezra Grand Admiral Thrawn 40 years of Return of the Jedi From a Certain Point of View anthology One-shot comics Star Wars Outlaws Latest television series The Acolyte Ahsoka The Bad Batch The Mandalorian Season Three Skeleton Crew Visions Volume 2 Young Jedi Adventures The High Republic The Eye of Darkness Shadows of Starlight The High Republic comics (2023) The High Republic Adventures (2023) Ongoing comics Dark Droids Bounty Hunters series Darth Vader series Doctor Aphra series Star Wars series Shadows of Starlight The High Republic (2023) The High Republic Adventures (2023) Hyperspace Stories Star Wars Skywalker saga The Phantom Menace Attack of the Clones Revenge of the Sith A New Hope The Empire Strikes Back Return of the Jedi The Force Awakens The Last Jedi The Rise of Skywalker Standalone films Canon The Clone Wars Rogue One Solo Lando Legends Caravan of Courage The Battle for Endor The Star Wars Holiday Special Live-action series The Mandalorian The Book of Boba Fett Obi-Wan Kenobi Andor Ahsoka The Acolyte Skeleton Crew Animated series Canon The Clone Wars Rebels Resistance The Bad Batch Tales of the Jedi Young Jedi Adventures Legends Droids Ewoks Clone Wars The Clone Wars Other Jedi Temple Challenge Visions Games Board games Card games Miniatures games Roleplaying games Real-world attractions Video games X-Wing/TIE Fighter Dark Forces/Jedi Knight Knights of the Old Republic Battlefront The Force Unleashed The Old Republic Jedi: Fallen Order LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga Virtual reality games Literature Audiobooks Comics Cookbooks Game books Magazines Music books Reference books Short stories Novels Young readers Navigation Articles Content A-Z Status articles Featured articles Good articles Comprehensive articles Browse articles by category Culture Droids Events The Force Individuals Locations Organizations Species Technology Behind the scenes Random article Audio files Images Lists Timelines Community About Wookieepedia FAQ Become a Wookieepedian! Administration Policies Attribution Canon Copyright Layout Guide Manual of Style Naming Neutral point of view Notability Sourcing Spoilers Wookieepedia in other languages Forums Consensus track Discussions Senate Hall Trash compactor Wookieepedian of the Month Requests for user rights WookieeProjects By individual articles Project Defender Project Stardust By subject matter Astrography Chiss Comics Creators Fantasy Flight Games Galaxy's Edge Knights of the Old Republic LEGO Novels Pride Resistance The Clone Wars The High Republic The Old Republic Women Contact Administrators' noticeboard Discord Editing Tutorials Editing sandbox Things to do Status article nominations Featured article nominations Good article nominations Comprehensive article nominations Status article reviews Featured article reviews Good article reviews Comprehensive article reviews Recent Changes Statistics in: and Cleanup Articles in need of updating Articles with multiple issues Short story collections listed in Canon Appearances First Order Galactic Empire successor states Interplanetary governments Outer Rim Territories governments Unknown Regions governments First Order Edit source View history Talk (49) I have a bad feeling about this… This article has multiple issues and is in need of major additions and/or work.
It is requested that this article, or a section of this article, be expanded. ({{ Expand }}) This article or section is in need of referencing per Wookieepedia's sourcing guidelines.
This article or section needs to be cleaned up to conform to a higher standard of article quality. ({{ Cleanup }}) Parts of this article have been identified as no longer being up to date. ({{ Update }}) The article needs to be updated with Shadow of the Sith , Force Collector , Age of Resistance - Captain Phasma 1 , Age of Resistance - Finn 1 , Star Wars: Poe Dameron , Star Wars Resistance , Age of Resistance - Kylo Ren 1 , Phasma , Hyperspace Stories 8 , Star Wars: Captain Phasma , Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition , Galaxy's Edge: Black Spire , Star Wars: Allegiance , Secret Agent Droids, Part 1 , Secret Agent Droids, Part 2 , Secret Agent Droids, Part 3 , Choose Your Destiny: A Finn & Poe Adventure , Spark of the Resistance , Buyer Beware , Star Wars: Halcyon Legacy , Hyperspace Stories 3 , Hyperspace Stories 4 , Tales of Villainy: Follow and Lead , The Last Jedi: Bomber Command , TIE Fighter Owners' Workshop Manual , Star Wars: Smuggler's Guide , Resistance Reborn , Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition , Star Wars Helmet Collection 18 , The Star Wars Book.
Please help Wookieepedia by editing this article. Once you have fixed an issue, you may remove it from the list of issues. See this article's talk page for more information.
First Order General information Organization type Fascist [1] neo-Imperialist [2] military junta [3] Head of state Dark Lord of the Sith (secretly) [4] Grand Admiral [5] Supreme Leader [6] Head of government Grand Admiral [5] Supreme Leader [6] Commander-in-chief Grand Admiral [5] Supreme Leader [6] Allegiant General [7] Executive branch Supreme Council (established between 34 ABY and 35 ABY ) [7] Military branch First Order military [8] Societal information Capital Mobile [9] Supremacy [10] Steadfast [1] Official language Galactic Basic Standard [6] Currency Credit [11] Aurei [12] Peggat [12] Zemid [12] State religious body Neo-Imperialism [2] Official holiday Empire Day (in memory of the old Empire) [2] Historical information Formed from Galactic Empire [13] Imperial Military [9] New Republic [14] Centrists [9] Sith Eternal (secretly) [9] Multiple Imperial Remnants [8] Unknown Regions Imperial remnant [8] Date established 21 ABY [15] (publicly formed in 29 ABY ) [16] Date dissolved 35 ABY [15] [Source] " The First Order is not the Empire. We are purer. We have been through the crucible and emerged stronger.
" " I agree, Phasma. The First Order is not the Empire. But perhaps, one day, if we all work very hard and do our very, very best... it could be.
" [17] The First Order , or simply the Order , was a fascist military junta in the Unknown Regions of the galaxy during the era of the New Republic.
 The First Order was ruled by a Supreme Leader from their mobile headquarters instead of a traditional planetary capital.
 A militaristic dictatorship that wished to remove disorder from existence and had a fanatical devotion to the totalitarian notions of order and a disdain for democracy.
 To this end, it became locked in a Cold War with the New Republic and spreading influence from beyond the confines of unknown space , ending with the First Order staging an invasion of the galaxy , but were repelled by the Resistance and Jedi Order , causing First Order rule to crumble.
The seeds of the First Order were planted before the Galactic Empire rose to power , as part of a posthumous contingency activated after the death of Emperor Palpatine in the Battle of Endor to ensure both his Empire did not outlive him and ensure it rebirth in the Unknown Regions at the hands of a select few assembled by the Emperor.
 In the years after, the remnant formed the First Order, a purportedly shadow government led by Grand Admiral Rae Sloane that opposed the New Republic and sought to reclaim Imperial legacy.
Sloane and Commandant Brendol Hux became part of a first set of leaders of the First Order, only for them to be side-lined by the mysterious Snoke who rose to power as Supreme Leader. Snoke was in fact an artificial Strand-Cast controlled by the revived Darth Sidious from the hidden world of Exegol , who was subservient to an unseen forces under his guidance. Much of the First Order however, was unaware of this itself nor their ultimate purpose. The First Order took advantage of the failure of the New Republic to properly exert its authority or truly patrol the Outer Rim.
 The First Order also had to contend with several hermetic kingdoms that lurked within the Unknown Regions and undertook a major offensive to seize their worlds and resources. It also began to use child conscripts—thousands of whom were abducted from outlying systems —into a new generation of stormtroopers.
Due to political gridlock and infighting in the New Republic Senate by 29 ABY , some systems left the New Republic and formally established the First Order, precipitating it public formation to the galaxy. Consequently, the Cold War began with the New Republic, a state of tensions in which there was occasional skirmishes and incidents. The First Order initiated a vast technologically superior military.
 Due to this hostility, former Senator Leia Organa founded the Resistance to monitor the activities of the Order due to the Senate being unwilling to take external threats seriously. Despite increasing aggression, the New Republic refused to take forceful military action against them, believing that they posed no credible threat. Meanwhile, the First Order began a enforcing heavily brutal suppression of dissent and unpatriotic activities in it space.
Five years later , full scale open warfare began after the First Order conducted a strike from Starkiller Base on Hosnian Prime , then-capital of the New Republic before commencing a massive invasion. Though its superweapon was destroyed by the Resistance, its armies and fleets vastly outnumbered the Resistance. Snoke was assassinated by the warlord , Kylo Ren , who after this coup , declared himself as Supreme Leader. However, Ren's rule was met with defiance and rebellion. A year later , a mysterious transmission announced the return of Darth Sidious. Determined to prevent any threats to his rule, Ren diverted resources away from the ongoing war and found the source—Exegol. There, he discovered the revived Darth Sidious, who told Ren of Snoke’s origins. Sidious then offered his fleet to Ren for his intended return of a dark age of a thousand years past. However, he would renounce the dark side , returning to the light as Ben Solo. The First Order was then assumed by Allegiant General Enric Pryde , who swore allegiance to Sidious. However, the Emperor's plans were undone by the Resistance; reinforced by an allied fleet , the Jedi Rey and the redeemed Ben Solo, the Resistance ended Sidious' plot for a return to power.
Without the support of the Sith fleet to reinforce them, an uprising against the rule of First Order erupted on many worlds across the galaxy, causing the First Order's hold to fade as people gathered the will to rise up. With a reborn Jedi Order ushering in a new sense of hope and a possible return of the New Republic in some form, the First Order was ultimately defeated.
Contents 1 History 1.1 Rise and fall of Empire 1.2 Early foundations 1.3 The rise of Snoke 1.4 New leaders 1.5 Cold War 1.5.1 The First Order emerges 1.5.2 Preparations for war 1.5.3 The search for the last Jedi 1.6 First Order-Resistance War 1.6.1 Starkiller unleashed 1.6.2 Chasing the Resistance 1.6.3 Conquering the galaxy 1.6.4 A dark alliance 1.6.5 Battle of Exegol 1.7 Uprisings 2 Organization 2.1 Government 2.2 Military 2.3 Intelligence 2.4 Outside affairs 2.5 Judiciary 3 Society and culture 4 Economy 5 Infrastructure 6 Astrography 7 Behind the scenes 8 Appearances 8.1 Non-canon appearances 9 Sources 10 Notes and references History [ ] Rise and fall of Empire [ ] " With the Force as my guide, death would not be the final word in my story. But my fall would signal a necessary end to the Galactic Empire. If the vast and powerful forces I had amassed could not perform their sworn duty and protect their own Emperor, they did not deserve to lay claim to this galaxy in my absence. For their failures, I would see them burn. And the galaxy along with them.
" [18] The Emperor's death triggered the Contingency, a plan to destroy the Empire and rebuild it in the Unknown Regions.
For roughly a millennium , the Galactic Republic maintained peace and stability within the galaxy , aided by the efforts of the monastic Jedi Order and the Judicial Forces.
 With the believed extinction of the Sith —ancient enemies of the Jedi and the Republic—the ruling Dark Lord Darth Sidious secretly plotted to overthrow the Republic with the formation of his own Sith Empire.
[19] [20] Sidious, along with his Sith apprentice Darth Tyranus , orchestrated the Separatist Crisis by fomenting political chaos across the galaxy.
 Through his apprentice, Sidious secretly commanded a rival galactic government known as the Confederacy of Independent Systems throughout the destructive three- year period that was the Clone Wars , while he remained the Supreme Chancellor of the Republic as Sheev [21] Palpatine long beyond the expiration of his term. Gradually amassing far more emergency powers than would be ordinarily allowed through the Galactic Senate , along with radically amending the Galactic Constitution , Sidious eventually oversaw the destruction of the Jedi Order and the defeat of the Separatists through his new apprentice, Darth Vader.
 Sidious, as Chancellor Palpatine, then issued the proclamation of the New Order , [21] officially transforming the thousand-year-old democracy into the Galactic Empire and installing himself as the first Galactic Emperor with the support of the Senate.
[22] With the purge of the Jedi and a massive military to enforce his will, Sidious remained largely unchallenged as Emperor throughout the initial nineteen years of his reign , embarking on a gradual conquest of the galaxy. Eventually, the Alliance to Restore the Republic was formed to oppose his aggressive expansion and genocidal actions, [23] resulting in the outbreak of the Galactic Civil War [24] that spanned years of galactic history.
[25] Four years after the destruction of the first Death Star by Luke Skywalker , [24] the Empire suffered a decisive defeat at the Battle of Endor , where the more powerful Death Star II was destroyed, and along with it, the Emperor and his apprentice, Darth Vader.
[26] The Emperor posthumously decreed the destruction of the Galactic Empire as a failed state.
Unknown to anyone but a select few, however, the Emperor had long been sending Imperial scouts and other constructive efforts to the Unknown Regions of space.
 Over the course of decades, the Unknown Regions had been seeded with shipyards, laboratories, and storehouses that would serve to prepare for the Empire's rebirth as part of Sidious' Contingency in the rare event of his death.
[27] His plan was to ensure the Galactic Empire's destruction as he believed that an Empire should not outlive its Emperor.
[28] However, he also planned the creation of a new Empire beyond the borders of known space; resources and select personnel were discreetly funneled to the Unknown Regions, where the Empire could begin anew.
[27] Per Sidious's plans, only the most ruthless of Imperial personnel would remain to forge the new state.
[2] Sidious entrusted the task of executing the Contingency to his protégé, Gallius Rax.
[28] Following another year of bloody conflict, the fractured Empire made its last stand over the sandy wastes of Jakku , which had become a rallying point for retreating Imperials, against the New Republic , resulting in many casualties on both sides of the conflict [8] as part of the Battle of Jakku.
[29] On Jakku, a secret Imperial research base, [8] the Jakku Observatory , housed ancient computers which plotted out computerized routes through the Unknown Regions. These computers used information derived from Grand Admiral Thrawn , [28] who hailed from the Chiss Ascendancy , [30] and the survey teams and probe droids that the Emperor had previously sent to explore these routes.
[28] Jakku came to serve as a jumping-off point for Imperial warships heading into the Unknown Regions, [31] and the retreating Imperials destroyed the research base before the New Republic could reach it.
[8] As part of the Contingency, Rax's secret objective in the Battle of Jakku was to destroy the planet to cripple both the remnants of the Empire and the New Republic; however, he was prevented from carrying out this phase by Grand Admiral Rae Sloane , who killed Rax. In his dying words, Rax urged Sloane to take his place in the Contingency with Commandant Brendol Hux , his son Armitage Hux , and their child soldiers aboard the starship Imperialis and rendezvous with the Emperor's flagship, the Super Star Destroyer Eclipse , which had been dispatched in advance to the Unknown Regions. Their journey took several months and consisted of many short hyperspace jumps, during which time Sloane discovered that the Imperialis had been transmitting coordinates to other Imperial fleets.
 Upon regrouping with the Eclipse , Sloane ordered the Sentinel piloting the Imperialis to bring the ship in and rejoin with the others. There, she intended to board and saw an opportunity to rebuild the Empire; one that was stronger and purer, and not given to the backstabbing and incest of the Galactic Empire.
[28] In the aftermath of the Battle of Jakku, the defeated Galactic Empire surrendered to the New Republic.
Defeated at Jakku and facing severe internal unrest, the Empire was forced to sign the Galactic Concordance , severely limiting its ability to wage war and ushering in its demise [8] Imperial Grand Vizier Mas Amedda and New Republic Chancellor Mon Mothma signed the Galactic Concordance, which called for the dissolution of the Galactic Empire. Chancellor Mothma then issued another declaration designating all surviving Imperial officers as war criminals, [28] while the Empire began to break into remnants. A remnant of Imperial vessels was confined to predetermined boundaries by the New Republic in the Core and Inner Rim [29] while a provisional government led by Amedda was established on Coruscant , the former capital of the Old Republic [19] and throneworld of the Empire, where it was overseen by Republic observers.
[28] After the signing of the Galactic Concordance, the New Republic arrived in systems still under Imperial control to announce the signing of the historic peace treaty. However, by the time the Republic reached these systems, fleets had already retreated to the Unknown Regions. The battle's end at Jakku was marked by the sudden departure of the surviving Imperial warships into the Unknown Regions following the announcement of the treaty, where they had seemingly disappeared.
[8] During the New Republic Era , multiple Imperial Remnants were represented on the Shadow Council , allowing them to coordinate efforts that subvert the New Republic.
[32] The Council was created by Gallius Rax [33] prior to his death on Jakku.
[28] Early foundations [ ] " It's time to start over. This is our first order. To begin again. And to get it right, this time.
" " Yes, of course, Grand Admiral. Anything you need. Glory be to Grand Admiral Sloane.
" " No. Glory goes only to the Empire.
" [28] Brendol Hux became a founder of the First Order, an isolationist military junta on the galaxy's edge.
Following the Battle of Jakku, [28] thanks to the collaboration of Thrawn , [32] a major remnant of the Empire, [9] composed former Imperial officers , nobles , technologists , [34] and warlords [8] fled the known galaxy into the Unknown Regions [9] in an effort to escape the prying eyes of the New Republic [28] as part of an exodus.
[8] There, they met secret reinforcements [1] and plotted a return to power, begin to build fleets and armies in secret to reclaim the Imperial legacy.
[34] Some of the tattered remains of the Imperial Military eventual fled into the galaxy's farthest reaches, [35] where they withered away into a remnant of political hardliners locked in a cold war with the New Republic before they reformed into [8] what became [34] the mysterious First Order, [8] a military junta [3] influenced by the principles of the fallen Empire.
[36] By 9 ABY , [37] this Imperial remnant was a member of the Shadow Council with Brendol Hux as a representative.
[32] Sloane and Hux became part of a first set of leaders of the First Order.
[2] By 15 ABY [15] Imperial holdouts in the Unknown Regions formed into the First Order, which specifically grew from the political , military, and spiritual [9] elements of the New Order.
[1] As such, its origins dated back to the Galactic Empire, with the remnants of the Imperial Military forming the basis of the First Order military.
 The Sith Eternal was the First Order's secretive spiritual branch; [9] as a Sith cult , they preserved the Sith religion and revered the dark side of the Force from their base of operations on the planet Exegol.
 Additionally, the Sith Eternal cultists were dedicated to the restoration of the Empire, secretly working to ensure the First Order's conquest of the galaxy.
[1] The rise of the First Order took advantage of the New Republic's failure to properly exert its authority or truly patrol the Outer Rim.
[38] Beyond that, the First Order would keep its emerging military might hidden within the Unknown Regions, where they avoided the eyes of the New Republic. The First Order Navy 's ideology would be focused on mobility and individual firepower due to its much smaller fleet in comparison to the Old Empire.
[39] The rise of Snoke [ ] " Through my manipulation of Snoke, I began gathering forces, building an army capable of opposing the New Republic that had arisen in my absence. Through Snoke, I would make certain that the First Order would be mine to control.
" [18] The First Order fell under the control of Supreme Leader Snoke, a strandcast created by Darth Sidious.
Just as many of the Emperor's servants carried the Old Empire's greatest military secrets to the Unknown Regions, so too did the creature known as Snoke , who rose to become [27] the Supreme Leader of the First Order.
[6] Had it not been for the ancient hyperspace trails blazed through the Unknown Regions by Snoke's Attendants , most of the former Imperial officers would have likely perished crossing into the uncharted realm.
[12] Snoke was a mysterious humanoid, with very scant details as to regarding his origins, [9] strong with the dark side of the Force.
[12] Despite his abilities not being explicitly Sith in origin, Snoke's powerful abilities as a force user and knowledge made him the undisputed heir as the leader to the forces gathered under the Contingency.
[1] Snoke was, in fact, one of the many artificial strandcasts created by the Emperor and his cult following, the Sith Eternal, prior to his demise, and discarded as a potential vessel for the Sith Lord's dark essence.
[18] Instead, Snoke was made to serve as a proxy ruler for his creator and influenced by the zombified Sith Lord from afar [9] to gather the forces that would go to make the armies of the First Order and spread his influence across the galaxy through less direct means.
[18] The First Order did not know of Snoke's origins, though some came to peer behind the veil of secrecy and realized that he was subservient to some unseen force.
[1] Snoke himself was possibly unaware of the factual nature surrounding his existence, [9] and indeed remained unaware of his status as a pawn in Sidious's larger game for his entire life.
[40] The Emperor's resurrection, the existence of his followers, the Sith Eternal, and their hidden base of operations, Exegol, were all secrets unknown to even the highest echelons of the First Order. Much of the First Order was even unaware of the Contingency itself nor their ultimate purpose in it, for as the First Order served as its military wing, the Sith Eternal lay at its spiritual heart. The true leadership of the First Order operated from behind a veil of secrecy, driven by the tenets of the dark side of the Force and the ancient ways of the Sith.
[1] From afar, the phantom Emperor, working from the shadows, [7] forged the remnants of the Empire into the First Order as he plotted his return to power.
[41] Once the time was right, Sidious would return at the head of a new Sith empire, which would sweep aside the First Order and any other pretender state to control the galaxy.
[2] Darth Sidious secretly guided the development of the First Order through his manipulation of Snoke.
Snoke's choices when governing the faction only added to his mysterious nature. The dark side adept made no designs toward the old title Emperor, relied on mysticism and focusing on spiritual matters while allowing the generals wield the First Order military in his name, and was unwilling to meet in person with his subordinates, instead relying on large casting presence holograms to communicate with and to administer orders to the underlings who served him.
[1] Gallius Rax, Rae Sloane, Ormes Apolin , and Brendol Hux were originally seen as potential leaders of the Empire's remnants by the admirals and generals who had survived the implosion of the Empire and the New Republic's wrath, but they were sidelined, co-opted, or destroyed by Snoke. Brendol's son, General Armitage Hux, was spared in the long term by Snoke in order to use him as a political tool in his rise to power.
[27] The emerging [42] First Order began kidnapping children to fill out the ranks of its new military , [1] specifically targeting the children of former Rebel leaders. Amongst those taken was the daughter of Rebel General Landonis Balthazar Calrissian , [4] Kadara , who was kidnapped in 15 ABY. In 21 ABY , [15] the scattered Imperial Remnants [42] that would eventually form the First Order [9] in the Unknown Regions had come to establish a new chain of command, albeit an obscure and skeletal one, for Imperial survivors. Amongst their followers was Enric Pryde , who was ordered to establish ties with the Corporate Sector Authority.
 The Sith Eternal secretly trusted Pryde as a valuable follower and thus dispatched Ochi of Bestoon to meet with him during the assassin's mission for the Emperor.
[42] Later in 21 ABY, the First Order was founded.
[15] Pryde was eventually made privy to Palpatine's survival and became the Emperor's contact within the regime.
[4] New leaders [ ] " Someone in your army tried to kill you. Clearly, you've managed to inspire a lot of loyalty, Hux.
" " Oh, please. I thought you could read minds, Ren. You honestly believe people hate me more than they hate you ? " [43] The First Order was joined by the grandson of Darth Vader, Kylo Ren, who pledged himself to the teachings of Supreme Leader Snoke.
As the son of a founding member of the First Order, Armitage Hux was raised in the organization's military wing [1] which Captain Phasma joined after leaving her homeworld of Parnassos with Brendol.
[5] Following the Destruction of the Jedi Temple , former Padawan Ben Solo joined the First Order under the persona of Kylo Ren. He became the master of the Knights of Ren as well as the apprentice of Supreme Leader Snoke. Hailing from the powerful bloodline of the Skywalker family , Ren had in his master's estimation the potential to become as strong as his grandfather Darth Vader.
[10] Unlike Armitage and Phasma, Ren did not possess an official rank in the First Order military. Nonetheless, as Snoke's apprentice he wielded the authority to command his master's forces.
[8] Kylo Ren, General Armitage Hux, and Captain Phasma were members of a new generation of First Order leaders.
Ren, Armitage, and Phasma represented a new generation of leaders that supplanted the old guard in the First Order's command structure.
[1] As part of this turnover, Armitage and Phasma conspired to assassinate Brendol; Armitage had been abused by his father from his youth, while Phasma sought to erase her past. Armitage left the actual murder up to Phasma with his only instruction being to make it untraceable. Phasma carried out the killing of Brendol using the toxin from the bite of a Parnassos beetle.
 Armitage then gave a brief address to Captain Cardinal and the Stormtrooper Corps informing them of Brendol's passing and ascended to his leadership role in the military, taking over from his late father.
[5] At some point, a cargo ship was ambushed containing military gear which the ship's crew claimed was meant for the First Order. Among the possessions seized was a set of stormtrooper armor which was later presented to Terex , a former Imperial stormtrooper and, at the time, a crime lord of the Ranc Gang.
 Terex immediately became curious about the modern design and confirmed that it was not of Imperial design. After Terex asked of its origin, he continued to think about the implications of this new information. Sometime later, he subsequently joined the ranks of the First Order Security Bureau.
[44] Meanwhile, the First Order had to contend with several threats that lurked within the Unknown Regions: hermetic kingdoms which were confronted by the Order. On Supreme Leader Snoke's instruction, the new military undertook a major offensive against several of these kingdoms to seize their worlds and resources to fuel their rise.
[27] Phasma herself led from the front as the First Order charted through the wilderness of the Unknown Regions.
[8] Cold War [ ] The First Order emerges [ ] " Over time, the former Imperials reunited as the First Order and coolly inhabited a wing of Republic politics until tensions reached a breaking point. The First Order seceded from the New Republic, a move that was welcomed by many in the galactic capital. But others realized that without Republic oversight, the First Order would return to the Empire's draconian ways and ambitious expansion.
" [14] The Amaxine warriors were a paramilitary group with secret ties to the First Order.
The First Order sought to restore to weaken the New Republic and to generate funding to build up the new navy.
 The First Order had used a militia group called the Amaxine warriors as proxies to fund the Nikto crime lord Rinnrivin Di 's cartel to achieve this. Seven years prior to the " Napkin Bombing " at the New Republic senatorial complex on Hosnian Prime , the First Order used the Amaxines to inject billions of credits as start-up capital into Rinnrivin's cartel, turning the hitherto minor cartel into a major crime syndicate. Establishing a mutual relationship with the Amaxines, Rinnrivin embarked on lucrative smuggling and gambling operations with the proceeds being channeled through shadowy corporations and Centrist sources back to the First Order, which used the money to rebuild its fleet. In addition, the Order also recruited several Centrist senators like Lady Carise Sindian as clandestine agents who worked to subvert the Republic from within. Many Centrists, an informal faction who were the rivals to the Populists in the New Republic Senate , and who favored a greater central government and military, admired the Old Empire's leaders and practices. Another proxy of the First Order was Arliz Hadrassian , a former TIE fighter pilot who had become the leader of the Amaxine warriors. While Hadrassian saw the Amaxines as the vanguard of the First Order, Lady Carise regarded her as too volatile to manage. Hadrassian in return was impatient with the Centrists for refusing to secede from the Republic.
[45] Failing to elect a First Senator, the New Republic lost the Centrist bloc to the First Order.
The First Order's operations were almost exposed when Rinnrivin Di's criminal activities began to exact a devastating toll on the planet Ryloth 's off-world trade. In response, the New Republic senators Leia Organa and Ransolm Casterfo embarked on an investigation which uncovered Rinnrivin's links to the Amaxine warriors. However, the two senators failed to discover the Order's linkages to the Amaxines and Rinnrivin's cartel. In an attempt to sow chaos, Arliz Hadrassian bombed the New Republic's senatorial complex. This set in motion a chain of events that led to the death of Rinnrivin and the destruction of most of the Amaxine warriors' forces on the planet Sibensko.
 Hadrassian killed herself after assassinating the Republic senator Tai-Lin Garr.
 While most Republic senators and the media believed that the demise of Rinnrivin's cartel and the Amaxines eliminated all threats to the Republic, Senator Organa disagreed with the New Republic's complacency. However, she was sidelined from the political process following a political scandal that led to the public revelation that her father was Darth Vader, which discredited Organa and forced her to resign from the Senate.
[45] The First Order claimed legitimacy as a successor state of the former Galactic Empire.
After the assassination of Tai-Lin Garr, Lady Carise and her Centrist counterparts began preparing a motion to secede from the New Republic in order to join and support the First Order.
[45] Acting as a political coalition of worlds advocating centralized authority, [9] the Centrists formally withdrew from the New Republic and joined the First Order [1] in 29 ABY , [16] marking the official formation of the First Order as a regime and beginning the Cold War between the First Order and the New Republic.
[1] While some in the Galactic Senate applauded the notion, others realized that without New Republic supervision, the former Imperials would return to the draconian ways of their predecessors.
[14] Supreme Leader Snoke initiated a vast rearmament program, which would go on to produce a technologically superior military over the one that once existed under the Galactic Empire, and began subverting the Republic, as the First Order was keenly aware that it lacked the superior numbers and support of the former Imperial state.
[27] Preparations for war [ ] " Through the ages, I've seen evil take many forms. The Sith. The Empire. Today, it is the First Order. Their shadows spreading across the galaxy. We must face them. Fight them. All of us..
" " There is no fighting against the First Order. Not one we can win.
" [6] The forces of the First Order emerged from the Unknown Regions, revealing the results of its rearmament program in defiance of the Galactic Concordance.
The Centrist worlds that seceded from the New Republic provided the First Order with a foothold in the known galaxy, [14] by which time its military forces emerged from the Unknown Regions, precipitating the return of fascism and militarism.
[1] In defiance of the Galactic Concordance, First Order forces frequently crossed the Trans-Hydian Borderlands , launching several incursions into both Republic space and other sectors.
[46] [36] [47] The term "cold war" was used because there was no direct, large-scale fighting, but instead occasional minor skirmishes. Despite mounting First Order aggression, the New Republic refused to take forceful military action against the Order, seeking to avoid provoking another devastating galactic war at all costs.
[46] During this time, the Resistance , an offshoot of the New Republic Defense Force , was founded by General Leia Organa, who realized that the Senate could not protect the New Republic, alongside her few remaining allies, like Gial Ackbar , C-3PO , Joph Seastriker , and Temmin Wexley.
 The Resistance acted as a check on the military designs of the First Order.
[45] General Organa released the Grace Report to the New Republic Senate, which publicly claimed that the Order was building hidden shipyards, armories, research-and-development labs, and academies, detailing the fact that facilities were working day and night on the massive military buildup.
[36] Meanwhile, the First Order began to expand and took over star systems with ease.
[48] The New Republic did not consider the First Order a threat to the galaxy, despite its military buildup.
The New Republic Senate believed that the First Order posed no real, credible threat to the galaxy at large and the hard-won galactic peace. Echoing these sentiments, Chancellor Lanever Villecham argued there was no need for concern as long as the Order adhered to the dictates of the Galactic Concordance. Despite this, the First Order blatantly defied the accords by ushering in the mass mobilization of superior stormtrooper forces, along with violating Republic bans on the sale of weapons to the First Order. Testing the resolve of the New Republic, small skirmishes occasionally erupted between the First Order and Republic, all while the Starkiller operation sought a suitable planet for implementation.
[8] The Resistance was formed as a result of the New Republic's unwillingness to risk open war with the First Order.
With the First Order's growing threat and rapid mobilization for war, prominent members of the Republic voiced concern over the Imperial successor state, with the most vocal being former Senator Leia Organa. Scoffed at by the Senate at large for being an alarmist and warmonger, Organa used her influence as a prominent member of the former Rebel Alliance to recruit many former military officers who had been left forgotten by the Military Disarmament Act passed by the Galactic Senate. Funded by like-minded senators who shared Organa's fears about the First Order, the Resistance came to serve as the opposing force to the Order's growing power, sparking a new phase of the continued Cold War.
[8] Meanwhile, the Republic Senate had become mired in corruption and bureaucracy, [46] amplified by the political gridlock caused by the divide between the Populists and the Centrists.
[45] Some senators like Erudo Ro-Kiintor colluded with the First Order for promises of wealth and power, with large sums of credits being discreetly transferred to him through the Corporate Sector Authority.
 As a result, the Resistance was forced to work on its own until it could obtain irrefutable evidence of First Order violations of the peace that could be presented to New Republic Command.
 During Operation: Sabre Strike , Resistance pilot Poe Dameron and General Organa discovered that Senator Erudo had been colluding with the First Order and that he had valuable information about Lor San Tekka , whom Organa believed could lead them to her brother, Luke Skywalker, who had gone into self-exile.
[46] The First Order deployed stormtroopers to the Colossus , ostensibly to protect the station from piracy.
The First Order began an occupation of the Colossus refueling station on the planet Castilon as part of their preparations for their planned war against the rest of the galaxy. The First Order occupied the Colossus under the guise of peacekeepers in wake of several pirate raids on the platform, which the Order itself had secretly manufactured as a pretext of intervention so that the Colossus could be used as a staging ground.
[49] The First Order had prior interest on the station; it had placed a large bounty of twenty thousand credits on Kel and Eila , which the Order claimed were members of a high-ranking First Order family from outside its military hierarchy. In actuality, Kel and Eila were orphaned survivors of the First Order's aggressive actions against the people on Tehar.
[11] The First Order's presence was welcomed by some civilians on the Colossus , but others opposed the Order's measures, leading to a riot among the alien population.
[49] In response, the First Order targeted residents who opposed or defied their control and placed them under arrest to be sent offworld under the pretext of an interest in security.
[50] The search for the last Jedi [ ] " The droid will soon be delivered to the Resistance… leading them to the last Jedi. If Skywalker returns… the new Jedi will rise.
" [6] Captain Phasma ordered Agent Terex to track the Resistance pilot Poe Dameron.
In response to the Resistance's Operation: Sabre Strike, Captain Phasma dispatched Agent Terex to recover the information that Poe Dameron obtained from Senator Erudo. Terex's First Order strike force pursued Dameron and his Black Squadron to the planet Ovanis.
[17] With the help of the unwilling spy, Oddy Muva , [51] Terex planted a tracker on Dameron's T-70 X-wing starfighter.
[52] A skirmish took place on the skies over Ovanis and the Cave of the Crèche , which was complicated by the presence of the Crèche cult and the hatching of two winged creatures.
 Ultimately, Terex and his landing force were defeated. The Crèche elder gave the information on Lor San Tekka to Dameron. To avoid war between the First Order and the New Republic, Terex and his surviving men were allowed to leave on their Maxima-A class heavy cruiser.
[53] The First Order and the Resistance sought to find Lor San Tekka, who possessed the key to finding Jedi Master Luke Skywalker.
Terex later obtained intelligence that Black Squadron were traveling to Megalox prison on the high-gravity world of Megalox Beta.
 Dameron traveled to the prison world to question the Hutt crime lord Grakkus Jahibakti Tingi about his knowledge of San Tekka's whereabouts. Terex bribed Warden Luta into abandoning Black Squadron to the prison population. Though Grakkus had made a deal with Terex to disclose the information, Grakkus changed his mind and decided to sell the information to whoever got him out first.
[54] Incensed at Grakkus' double-cross, Terex hired the crime lords Isin , Kan Be , and Toren to use their gangs to storm Grakkus' fortress and kill Black Squadron. He planned to interrogate Grakkus and then kill him.
[55] Grakkus' plan was, however, foiled by Black Squadron's astromech droids including BB-8 , who deactivated Megalox's gravity shield. While Black Squadron and Grakkus escaped, Terex and his mercenaries were pinned down by the high gravity. Terex managed to escape aboard the Carrion Spike and attacked the Megalox space station , seeking to punish Luta for letting Black Squadron escape. His ship blasted several shuttles but was forced to retreat when Black Squadron turned around and inflicted considerable damage on the Carrion Spike.
 Captain Phasma summoned Terex back to First Order space to report for debriefing, but Terex instead chose to pursue his nemesis Dameron.
[56] Dameron was helped by Suralinda Javos, a journalist investigating the First Order's clandestine activities.
Later, the Galaxy Beacon journalist and former New Republic Starfleet member Suralinda Javos discovered that the First Order was building military installations, shipyards, weapons research facilities, and "something bigger" in violation of the Galactic Concordance. She met with Dameron on the Inner Rim gas giant of Pheryon , hoping to sell the information to the Resistance in order to boost her journalistic career. However, the First Order Security Bureau Agent Weel and his stormtroopers captured Javos and Dameron. During interrogation, Javos managed to kill Weel and free Dameron. After escaping, Javos decided to join the Resistance.
[57] Instead of returning to First Order space, Terex traveled to the crime haven of Kaddak.
[58] There, he retook control of the Ranc Gang, [59] which he had helped create after the Battle of Jakku.
[44] Against Captain Phasma's orders, Terex decided to use his Ranc Gang to destroy Poe and the Resistance. His plan involved giving false intelligence on the First Order to the Resistance droid spy N1-ZX and tracking Dameron back to the Resistance base. Terex wanted to destroy the Resistance once and for all to aid the First Order's conquest of the galaxy.
[51] Terex's plans were upended when Dameron realized the deception and led Terex's Ranc Gang fleet to a remote desert planet.
[51] In addition, Oddy decided to break Terex's leverage on him by rescuing his wife Sowa Chuan and several slaves from Terex's flagship, Carrion Spike.
 While Terex led a landing party in pursuit of Dameron and the droids, Black Squadron assailed Terex's ship and armada of " Uglies.
" [60] Oddy and most of the slaves managed to escape in escape pods while Black Squadron provided firing cover. Terex's landing party was also wiped out by N1-ZX, who had been reprogrammed with Mister Bones 's droid personality template. Terex also fought with Dameron and BB-8 but was disarmed following a struggle.
[61] The battle came to an end when First Order forces under Commander Malarus arrived and wiped out Terex's Ranc Gang fleet and flagship Carrion Spike.
[61] Dameron delivered Terex to Commander Malarus, who arrested the rogue agent for risking open war between the First Order and the Resistance.
Malarus had been dispatched by the First Order to arrest Terex, whose rogue mission violated Supreme Leader Snoke's directive to avoid open conflict with the New Republic and New Republic-aligned forces such as the Resistance. Malarus also led a landing party who met with Dameron and took the captive Terex into custody.
[61] Malarus and Terex then went to Abednedo to capture Oddy Muva.
[62] While onboard a transport, she had Terex interrogate Muva for information on the Resistance.
[63] Malarus however lost Muva with the aid of Dameron and Wexley, Malarus was then forced to watched as Muva made a suicide run on the Enshado and followed by her escape into hyperspace.
[64] Malarus then went to Cato Neimoidia where she fought with Dameron. She was confronted by an official of House Reya , who arrested her and said they would give her a trial.
[65] Threatened by the return of the Jedi Order, the Supreme Leader prioritized the hunt for Luke Skywalker.
Seeking to locate a fragment of a map that led to Jedi Master Luke Skywalker [6] —who had gone into self-imposed exile following the failed resurrection of the Jedi Order, for which he blamed himself [10] —Supreme Leader Snoke believed that if Skywalker were to ever return, the new Jedi would rise, which would threaten the First Order's rise to power.
[6] As a result, the Supreme Leader deployed the Starkiller commanding triumvirate [8] —General Hux, Captain Phasma, and Kylo Ren—to Jakku, where Dameron and BB-8 had recovered the star map fragment from Lor San Tekka, an old ally of General Organa. Seeking to capture the droid, the First Order assaulted [6] the Church of the Force settlement of Tuanul [8] where San Tekka resided, but BB-8 was able to escape with the piece of the map.
[6] At Ren's command, First Order troops massacred a village on Jakku.
The villagers of Tuanul fought back but were defeated; the survivors were then herded into a large group while San Tekka was brought to Ren himself, who demanded he turn over information on the map to the First Order. San Tekka claimed that Ren could not deny the truth that was his own family, causing Ren to slay the old man with his lightsaber.
 Dameron then fired on Ren in retaliation, but the dark warrior caught the blast while his stormtroopers captured the pilot and brought him to [6] their flagship , the Resurgent -class Star Destroyer Finalizer.
[8] Captain Phasma and her stormtroopers—except for FN-2187 —executed the remaining villagers on Ren's orders.
[6] FN-2187 and Dameron escaped the Finalizer aboard a stolen TIE/sf space superiority fighter [66] though not before Ren tortured Dameron and discovered the map fragment to be in a BB-unit droid back on Jakku. During their escape, Dameron dubbed the renegade stormtrooper Finn. The pair crash landed in the Goazon Badlands on Jakku, where Finn presumed Dameron deceased. Finn eventually found BB-8 alongside a scavenger named Rey , but the First Order also found them, leading them to mark Rey as well and pursue the three across Jakku. However, Rey, Finn, and BB-8 were able to escape Jakku aboard the Millennium Falcon.
 They eventually stumbled on Rebellion war heroes and smugglers Han Solo and Chewbacca in space, and the five of them traveled to Takodana , where they sought the help of Maz Kanata in order to deliver BB-8 and the map fragment to General Organa at the Resistance base.
[6] On the First Order's secret Starkiller Base, General Hux informed Supreme Leader Snoke that their superweapon was ready and proposed using it on the New Republic in order to draw out the Resistance. Supreme Leader Snoke authorized the operation and dismissed Hux before he conferred with Kylo Ren, with whom he discussed an apparent awakening in the Force. The Supreme Leader then informed his dark apprentice that the droid had fallen into the hands of his father, Han Solo, before cutting his holographic transmission to Starkiller Base.
[6] First Order-Resistance War [ ] Starkiller unleashed [ ] " Today is the end of the Republic. The end of a regime that acquiesces to disorder. At this very moment, in a system far from here… the New Republic lies to the galaxy… while secretly supporting the treachery… of the loathsome Resistance. This fierce machine which you have built… upon which we stand… will bring an end to the Senate! To their cherished fleet! All remaining systems will bow to the First Order! And will remember this… as the last day of the Republic! " [6] The New Republic was destroyed by Starkiller Base as a demonstration of the First Order's power.
On the very eve of the planned war, General Hux delivered a speech to the legions of stormtroopers under his command who assembled to witness the destructive firepower of the weapon. Hux declared that the day would mark the end of the New Republic and denounced the Republic for lying to the galaxy, claiming that the Republic secretly supported the Resistance.
[6] After proclaiming that the remaining systems would bow to the First Order, General Hux commanded that the weapon be fired, and massive beams of energy were fired across the galaxy from Ilum [1] towards the Hosnian system. When the beams arrived, the astronomical bodies of the system were destroyed , including the galactic capital of Hosnian Prime, and with it, the New Republic Senate and a portion of its Defense Fleet.
[6] A division of First Order stormtroopers invaded Takodana to acquire the map to Luke Skywalker.
As the First Order rose to power through the Starkiller crisis , it continued the hunt for the map to Skywalker, seeking to prevent the rise of the new Jedi. Its forces swiftly laid siege to Maz Kanata's castle on Takodana and leveled it. Rey fled into the forests surrounding the castle, but Ren deployed stormtroopers to the woods before heading into the woods himself, hunting Rey down and eventually finding and capturing her. He probed her mind with the Force and realized that she had seen the map. Ren then decided that he would not need the droid, believing that he could instead interrogate her to find out what she had seen. Ren was notified of a Resistance surprise attack by a stormtrooper officer, who requested more troops, but Ren instead ordered the First Order division to pull out, claiming that they had what they came for. First Order troops then boarded their ships and withdrew, taking the unconscious Rey along with them.
[6] The Battle of Starkiller Base ended in the superweapon's destruction.
Aided by the deserter FN-2187 "Finn," Solo and Chewbacca infiltrated Starkiller Base to rescue Rey and disable the planetary shields, allowing a Resistance strike to destroy the planet-converted superweapon. With the First Order minutes away from destroying the Resistance base on D'Qar , the team achieved their objectives, although Solo died in the process while trying to reconcile with Ren, his son with Organa. Escaping the planet with seconds to spare, the First Order's sun-harvesting superweapon was destroyed by the Resistance Starfighter Corps , forming a new star where the planet once was. Supreme Leader Snoke ordered General Hux to leave the planet and come to him with Kylo Ren in order to complete his training.
[6] As Starkiller blew up, the damaged Retribution that was under the command of Gideon Hask pulled out of hyperspace, its hyperdrive destroyed by Resistance agents Iden Versio , Zay Versio , and Shriv Suurgav , who were on a mission to learn more about the First Order's Project Resurrection.
[13] Chasing the Resistance [ ] " They can't get away, Supreme Leader. We have them tied on the end of a string.
" [10] The First Order fleet had in large numbers regrouped for the new galactic war after the fall of Starkiller. Phasma returned from chasing down and dispatching the true culprit on Luprora who she blamed for being behind the one who had turned off the shields at Starkiller Base. She named Lieutenant Sol Rivas as the perpetrator to General Hux.
[67] The surviving Starkiller aerial defense force pilots, such as Poldin LeHuse , were re-integrated into the fleet. They expressed a desire for vengeance and to prove themselves after failing to save the superweapon.
[12] In spite of Starkiller Base's destruction, the First Order stood poised to conquer the galaxy.
Despite the loss of Starkiller Base, the First Order still possessed a secure and intact chain of command and massive military strength in the form of hundreds of battle-cruisers and millions of troops, emerging from the shadows to seize control of the galaxy by force. Following the loss of the Galactic Senate and the Hosnian system, the New Republic lost its leadership and its entire home fleet, which, due to the Military Disarmament Act, had been the majority of the Republic military.
[12] Because of this imbalance, the New Republic was virtually helpless as First Order fleets spread across the galaxy.
[12] These events quickly led to the collapse of the New Republic's authority over the galaxy as individual planets and governments began looking to their own interests. Surviving senators dissolved the Republic's remaining task forces in an effort to protect their own homeworlds [27] while other worlds capitulated to the First Order in order to avoid direct military confrontation.
[12] As a result, the galaxy, as a whole, became divided.
[68] The Colossus was home to a Resistance cell that the First Order hunted in the Outer Rim.
The few Republic military forces that remained were completely outclassed and destroyed by the First Order, which had spent thirty years training and preparing for the war, while the New Republic military stagnated in peace. This convinced many Republic member worlds to surrender to the First Order without a fight, rather than risk defeat and devastation. This was also a result of Republic political infighting and corruption, as Centrist senators and worlds enacted a long-planned mass secession from the New Republic to the First Order. At the same time, many Outer Rim worlds that had been left defenseless and forgotten by the New Republic quickly became incited by the Order's promise of protection from the pirates and criminal cartels that preyed on them.
[ source? ] The core Resistance group found itself greatly outmatched by the First Order, [10] though the First Order also had to contend with other Resistance cells.
[69] The First Order failed to prevent the loss of intelligence on the specifications of the Mandator IV -class Siege Dreadnought , [13] and further lost its grip over the Colossus , which escaped Castilon into space.
[70] However, with the loss of the New Republic and its unofficial support of their forces, the Resistance only possessed a few military ships and a few hundred soldiers. This led General Leia Organa to order the complete evacuation of the Resistance base on D'Qar while a First Order fleet led by General Hux was on its way to destroy the Resistance once and for all.
[10] General Hux received direct instructions from the Supreme Leader to annihilate the entire Resistance.
Setting their sights on the Resistance base, Hux's forces arrived in battle and destroyed the base, but the Resistance was able to escape before the First Order could finish them off. Despite escaping, the Resistance's speedy evacuation had cost them the vast majority of their remaining fleet and left them as fugitives wandering in space. Meanwhile, Supreme Leader Snoke summoned his apprentice, Kylo Ren, to his throne room on the Supremacy , the First Order flagship, and mocked him for his failure at Starkiller Base and his ambitions to emulate Darth Vader.
[10] The mobile supertanker fuel depot , the Colossus , shortly arrived in the aftermath of the D'Qar evacuation and tried to retrieve coaxium from the wreckage of the Fulminatrix.
 Phasma tasked Pyre and Agent Tierny with recovering the station or destroying it if recovery proved impossible due to its strategic importance and sought to prevent them from gaining the fuel, however this effort failed and the Resistance was able to successfully recovers coaxium and flee. Pyre and Tierny vowed to hunt for the Colossus.
[71] Soon afterwards, Nikto engineer Nenavakasa Nalor was sent sabotage the platform. Posing as a stranded spacer, but was discovered as a First Order spy. Though Nena escaped, they were able to managed to undo her sabotage and escape First Order forces.
[72] The Resistance was pursued through hyperspace by a fleet of First Order warships, including Snoke's flagship, the Supremacy.
Using hyperspace tracking , a newly developed technology descended and finally perfected from the Empire's Tarkin Initiative , the First Order tracked the Resistance to the Oetchi system , [73] catching them completely off guard and destroying one of their cruisers instantly. Kylo Ren, leading a TIE squadron in his personal fighter, attacked the Resistance's command ship Raddus and blew up its hangar bay, taking out all of the Resistance's remaining fighters before he set his sights on the ship's bridge , where his mother, General Leia Organa, was. Though Ren was ultimately unable to bring himself to fire, his wingmen had no such qualms and fired on the bridge, exposing it to the vacuum of space and killing the majority of the Resistance's leadership, including Admiral Gial Ackbar. Organa was able to use the Force to pull herself back aboard, but she was left incapacitated. The Resistance's chain of command fell onto Vice Admiral Amilyn Holdo , who oversaw their outrunning of the First Order, but their fuel supplies were dangerously low, and one by one their other ships were running dry and being destroyed by the Supremacy ' s turbolasers.
[10] Once the Raddus was almost out of fuel, the Resistance began to fragment as desertions dramatically increased as members saw the struggle against the First Order as a lost cause. Later, a full-blown mutiny occurred as two sides formed among the crew: those who wanted to escape and hide from the enemy, and those who wanted to fight. This mutiny, led by Poe Dameron, was put down by the recovered General Organa, and the Resistance attempted to slip down to the former Rebel world of Crait.
[10] However, due to the capture of the Resistance infiltration team on the Supremacy , the First Order learned of the plan when the team code breaker DJ betrayed the Resistance for his freedom and payment. This led the Supremacy to fire on the unarmed and unarmored [10] U-55 orbital loadlifters , [12] destroying roughly half of them.
[10] Ren killed Snoke and usurped his position as Supreme Leader of the First Order.
Meanwhile, Kylo Ren brought Rey to Snoke's throne room onboard the Supremacy , but Snoke's short reign over the galaxy ended as Ren killed his master along with his guards, while in a desperate sacrificial gamble to save the Resistance, Vice Admiral Holdo aimed the Raddus at the Supremacy and entered lightspeed. As a result, the ship collided with the First Order flagship and cleaved it and several Resurgent -class Star Destroyers in half, saving the Resistance remnant and causing heavy damage to the First Order fleet.
[10] Ren seized the title of Supreme Leader after the demise of Snoke. Driven by his rejection of the past, Ren endeavored to build a new galactic order by destroying the combined legacy of the Jedi, the Sith, the Rebellion, and all that came before.
[10] The First Order's forces quickly recovered, and, under the orders of the newly proclaimed Supreme Leader, sent an invading force of All Terrain Armored Transport and All Terrain MegaCaliber Six walkers down to the abandoned rebel base on Crait where the Resistance was taking shelter.
[10] Ren personally led the siege of the Resistance's forces [12] at the Battle of Crait.
[10] Luke Skywalker's sacrifice ensured the survival of the Resistance and the Jedi Order.
During the battle, the Millennium Falcon , piloted by Chewbacca and Rey, arrived and attacked the First Order's TIE fighters, drawing them away from the battlefield. Even so, the battle led to the continued deaths of many of the remaining Resistance soldiers and personnel and the further depletion of its equipment. In addition, the Resistance's allies in the Outer Rim were called on for reinforcements, but did not arrive. However, Luke Skywalker unexpectedly appeared and confronted the First Order alone on the battlefield. Ren ordered all of the walkers to open fire on Skywalker in an attempt to destroy him. However, Skywalker miraculously emerged unscathed, and Ren went down to the surface to personally face his old Jedi Master. During their duel, Ren realized he was actually fighting a Force projection of Skywalker, who was still on Ahch-To.
 Skywalker's projection vanished, leaving Ren furious as the distraction bought time for the remaining few dozen Resistance personnel to flee aboard the Millennium Falcon with Rey's help.
[10] Conquering the galaxy [ ] " The First Order is on the verge of bringing unprecedented peace to the galaxy. An era of harmony once unimaginable amid the corruption and chaos of the New Republic.
" [74] The First Order conquered much of the galaxy, becoming an empire in all but name under Supreme Leader Kylo Ren.
In the immediate aftermath of the Battle of Crait, the newly-christened Supreme Leader Kylo Ren set forth to establish his dominion over the galaxy, [74] with entire worlds surrendering in fear.
[72] The First Order had taken possession of the Outer Rim world of Bracca and even the Core World of Corellia with little resistance as the galaxy having been left largely defenseless following the Starkiller incident. An emergency election on Akiva resulted in the victory of a pro-First Order merchant while the First Order arrived on Ryloth, giving the Ryloth shipping guild five days to tithe before the shipping lanes would be blockaded.
 The Resistance had fled to Ryloth, setting up in a Ryloth Defense Authority base , until a resident of Lessu betrayed them to the First Order. Despite a First Order attack on the base, the Resistance escaped the planet.
[75] Sometime later, General Hux was informed of a sighting of Resistance operative Finn, but he dismissed it and told the lieutenant who had given him the information that the First Order wouldn't listen to every little word somebody said about the Resistance. Right then, Supreme Leader Ren came up to the bridge of the Finalizer and chastised Hux in front of the lieutenant, informing him that the First Order would in fact do anything to destroy the Resistance. To set an example, the First Order launched an assault that resulted in the destruction of the neutral world of Tah'Nuhna for assisting the Resistance after their escape from Crait.
[76] Meanwhile, Mika Grey , a traveler searching for Sith artifacts to keep them out of the First Order's hands, was being tracked by Agent Raith and a squad of First Order Raiders , stormtroopers commissioned by their commander, Supreme Leader Ren, with hunting down ancient Sith artifacts.
[77] The Raiders were searching for a Sith relic from a buried temple on Ashas Ree , where they encountered the Colossus Resistance cell, who were also looking to acquire the relic. However, the First Order Raiders failed to acquire it and perished when the Sith relic unleashed an explosive wave of energy that incinerated Raith and his troops.
[78] Ren forbade the galaxy from having any contact with the Resistance on pain of death.
The First Order then went to neutral world of Fondor where a Resistance party had been spotted. A thorough, brutal interrogation of a Fondor official revealed that while the Resistance group went through the system, the official wouldn't lend any assistance. However, Supreme Leader Ren declared that even mere contact with the enemy was treason , and it gave him the excuse that he needed to put the Fondor Shipyards under complete First Order control. Ren then personally beheaded the official for this perceived treason with a swipe of his lightsaber—stating that the Empire had been too lenient.
[79] The First Order then prepared to make an example of Mon Cala after a fleet of at least twelve Resurgent -class warships arrived over Mon Cala acting on intelligence that the Resistance was there. There, a fleet of Mon Cala warships led by Aftab Ackbar managed to escape the planet's surface from the far side and jump to hyperspace, making the First Order aware that the Mon Calamari and Quarrens had chosen not to remain neutral and instead had given their support to the Resistance.
[80] By then, the First Order had already had established a presence on Corellia.
[81] The First Order's invasion of the galaxy proceeded virtually unopposed following the annihilation of the New Republic.
As the war progressed, the First Order launched a manhunt for the surviving members of the Resistance, deploying forces to various locations across the galaxy. Ren personally oversaw the search for Resistance fugitives at the Black Spire Outpost on Batuu , having traveled to the remote installation via a TIE/es assault shuttle after receiving word that Rey had apparently been sighted on Batuu. Upon his arrival at Docking Bay 9 , Ren was greeted by a First Order officer whom he deemed incompetent, and consequently strangled the officer by way of the Force.
[82] First Order forces gained control of a bacta production plant on Tevel , but it was retaken by the Resistance and the Tevellans.
[83] Sometime later, the First Order light cruiser , the Ladara Vex , was dispatched to Minfar in order to obtain a weapon that could control the Zixon known as the Echo Horn , but it was destroyed by Resistance member sympathizers.
[84] The First Order seized control of the planet Dantooine , [85] which was once used as a base by the Rebel Alliance during the Galactic Civil War, [86] and established a blockade , trapping a group of Resistance recruits on Dantooine until the arrival of the Colossus cell.
[85] As punishment for Aeosian kingdom after it briefly hosted the Colossus , a First Order fleet was dispatched to and bombarded the planet Aeos Prime.
 The attack proved to be too much for recent recruit Tamara Ryvora , who was rescued by the Colossus crew in a battle that destroyed the Star Destroyer Thunderer.
 Whereas Agent Tierny was executed by Ren for their failings, [69] Commander Pyre went down with the ship.
[2] A dark alliance [ ] " Forgive me, sir, but these allies on Exegol…they sound like a cult. Conjurers and soothsayers.
" " They've conjured legions of Star Destroyers. The Sith fleet will increase our resources ten-thousandfold. Such range and power will correct the error of Starkiller Base.
" [10] In 35 ABY , [87] the Sith Eternal cult revealed itself to the galaxy by broadcasting a message that declared revenge using the voice of Emperor Palpatine, the widely known and public identity of the Dark Lord of the Sith, Darth Sidious, who was still believed to be dead. After this event, Supreme Leader Kylo Ren, who was determined to destroy any potential threats to his rule over the galaxy, diverted First Order resources to search for the truth , resulting in him finding a Sith wayfinder on Mustafar owned by his grandfather, Darth Vader, which had been imbued by means of the Force with coordinates.
[7] Ren discovered secrets hidden on Exegol, from the Emperor's rebirth and the creation of Snoke, to the construction of the Sith Eternal's fleet, the Final Order.
Ren used the wayfinder to travel alone to its destination, where he discovered the hidden world of the Sith, Exegol, in the Unknown Regions. At the Sith Citadel , Sidious revealed himself to Supreme Leader Ren and divulged that he had created the former Supreme Leader Snoke. The Sith Lord thought of the First Order as "just the beginning" and revealed to Ren the so-called Final Order , [7] a massive fleet of planet-destroying Xyston -class Star Destroyers , [1] created alongside an army of Sith troopers by the Sith Eternal cult.
[1] After a generation, the work of the Emperor's followers was effectively complete; [4] the Sith Eternal military was on the verge of launching a full-scale invasion of the galaxy, its objective to restore Sith rule in the form of a new Sith Empire.
[1] The Emperor advised Ren that he could use the Sith fleet to succeed where his grandfather Vader failed, ruling the galaxy as the new Emperor. He offered Ren the fleet on the condition of killing the Jedi apprentice Rey. The Dark Lord then warned Ren that Rey was, in fact, his granddaughter, and thus a Palpatine herself.
[7] Kylo Ren envisioned a new Sith Empire in which he ruled the galaxy with the forces of the First Order and the Sith Eternal under his command.
At a meeting of the Supreme Council on the Resurgent -class Star Destroyer Steadfast , [1] Ren informed the First Order officers that a spy in their ranks had supplied information to the Resistance. Though he was unaware of the mole's identity, Ren was confident that the fleet on Exegol would make him invincible, transforming the First Order into a true Empire. General Domaric Quinn expressed distrust over the Sith Eternal, denouncing them as a cult of conjurers and soothsayers.
Allegiant General Enric Pryde countered that the Sith fleet would increase their resources ten thousandfold, correcting what he believed was the "error" of Starkiller Base. Ren choked General Quinn to death after he openly questioned the Supreme Leader as to what the Emperor was asking for in return. He then ordered the council to crush any worlds that defied them, and announced that he and his Knights of Ren were going hunting for "the scavenger," Rey.
[7] The First Order found Rey, alongside Finn, Dameron, and Chewbacca, on Pasaana and alerted the local garrison.
First Order jet troopers pursued them into the desert plains of Pasaana as the First Order arrived to Pasaana; the group escaped, though Chewbacca was captured by the Knights of Ren and brought on board Ren's Star Destroyer while Rey and Ren confronted each other in the desert. Later, the Knights of Ren tracked the group to Kijimi , a world occupied by the First Order.
[7] Ren was determined to take the Emperor's throne with Rey, a Jedi apprentice, by his side.
Ren arrived at Kijimi on his Star Destroyer and locked down the city. Finn and Poe Dameron were captured and, alongside Chewbacca, sentenced to execution, but Hux freed them, revealing himself to be the spy. The group liberated the Millennium Falcon and escaped, though not before Ren revealed to Rey that she was the granddaughter of Sidious and that they formed a Force dyad.
 Pryde deduced Hux to be the spy and executed him on sight with a blaster rifle. Ren meanwhile conferred with Sidious over the Force; the Sith Lord threatened to turn his fleet against Ren if he betrayed their agreement, but Ren told Sidious he knew where Rey was going.
[7] Battle of Exegol [ ] " As I served you in the old wars, I serve you now.
" — Listen ( file info ) [10] After Ren renounced the dark side, Sidious gave command of the Final Order fleet to Allegiant General Enric Pryde.
Ren confronted Rey alone among the Death Star ruins on Kef Bir , an ocean moon of Endor.
 The two fought in a lightsaber duel ; Ren bested Rey, but was distracted when his mother Organa reached out to him through the Force, allowing Rey to stab him with his own lightsaber before sensing Organa's presence. Rey healed her archenemy with the Force before leaving with his ship. Motivated by a memory of his late father, Han Solo, Ren renounced the dark side and reclaimed his identity as Ben Solo, [7] abandoning the First Order in the process.
[88] Although Organa's sacrifice interfered with Sidious' plan, the Emperor was not deterred and instead refocused his efforts toward his granddaughter, Rey.
[7] With the Supreme Leader suddenly gone, [88] Pryde became de facto leader of the First Order, [7] leaving him free to take his orders directly from the Emperor [88] as he had in secret.
[4] Pryde was contacted by Sidious while on board the Steadfast.
[7] The Imperial veteran, [1] having served the Emperor during the Galactic Civil War, pledged his allegiance and the First Order's to the Sith Lord, [7] who in turn granted Pryde control over the Sith fleet. This action officially allied the Sith Eternal and the First Order.
[89] With Pryde's support, Sidious decided that the time had come to deploy the Final Order throughout the galaxy. He summoned Pryde to Exegol and sent him a Sith Star Destroyer from the fleet, [7] the Derriphan , [1] to destroy Kijimi as a show of force against the Resistance. Following the destruction of Kijimi , Pryde oversaw the Sith fleet, which was in the process of departure when the Resistance arrived prior to the Citizens' Fleet , resulting in the Battle of Exegol.
[7] With the destruction of the Steadfast , the Sith fleet could not reinforce the First Order.
During the battle, General Pryde had the source of a navigation signal that the Sith fleet needed to deploy off world switched from a navigation tower on Exegol to a beacon on his command ship. However, a Resistance landing team made landing on Pryde's command ship. Former stormtroopers of Company 77 covered Resistance troopers from their orbaks as they fought against Sith troopers that landed to defend the ship. The landing team successfully knocked out the navigation tower and retreated, but the First Order personnel were able to reset it. At the same time Darth Sidious, after healing himself, attacked the Resistance and galactic forces, but he was stopped by Rey.
[7] She deflected Sidious' lightning back towards him, causing the Emperor to disintegrate and be destroyed at last, preventing the rebirth of the Sith. Meanwhile, former stormtroopers Finn and Jannah stayed behind on the hull of the ship and turned the ship's own turbolasers against it, killing Pryde and destroying the Steadfast , and with it, the navigation signal, preventing the remaining Sith Star Destroyers from launching off of Exegol and reinforcing the First Order. Finn and Jannah narrowly escaped aboard the Millennium Falcon with the help of General Lando Calrissian and Chewbacca as the Steadfast exploded and plunged to Exegol's surface.
[7] Uprisings [ ] " People are rising up all over the galaxy. Poe. We did it.
" " We did it.
" [10] The Battle of Exegol was followed by a galaxy-wide uprising against the First Order.
In the aftermath of the Battle of Exegol, the First Order's forces came under attack by the populations that they had subjugated. Inspired by the victory of the Resistance and their rallied citizens' fleet, people rose up all over the galaxy against the First Order, including on Bespin , Endor, Jakku, [7] Coruscant, Naboo , Corellia, Lothal , and Thyferra.
[90] The First Order fell across the galaxy, and was ultimately defeated in the war.
[9] Organization [ ] Government [ ] " The Supreme Leader is dead.
" " Long live the Supreme Leader.
" [10] The Supreme Leader wielded absolute power and authority over the First Order.
The Supreme Leader was a self-appointed position with absolute power over the First Order [9] who delegated power to a number of high-ranking officers and advisors , effectively removing any distinction between military and state. This formed an upper cadre of high-ranking officials, the First Order High Command , who had the authority to govern the First Order in the Supreme Leader's name.
[6] As Supreme Leader, Snoke was content to focus on spiritual matters, ceding control of military matters to generals and the shaping of the First Order's public image to propaganda masterminds. However, any and all alterations to the strategy required the Supreme Leader's approval, with personal interests regarded as secondary to orders from the Leader, while a "commanding triumvirate" of the First Order existed consisting of Kylo Ren, General Armitage Hux, and Captain Phasma, the leaders of Starkiller Base.
[6] Unbeknownst to even the highest echelons of the First Order, however, Snoke was in fact an artificial creation engineered by a hidden Sith cult, the Sith Eternal, under the directive of their master, Darth Sidious who returned from the dead, the Emperor of the Old Empire. Several addition clones of Snoke were stored on their hidden redoubt world, Exegol.
[7] Snoke served Darth Sidious and the Sith Eternal as a means to groom Ben Solo as Kylo Ren. Snoke kept his homeworld and origins concealed from the First Order so as to avoid revealing himself to be an artificial creation; nonetheless, some came to realize that Snoke was subservient to an unseen force and master.
[1] Due to the Supreme Leader's status in the First Order, an officer who had direct access to his person effectively wielded greater authority than their military rank would indicate.
[12] They oversaw the colonization of the Unknown Regions and destruction of the last Jedi. Much like Darth Vader in the former Empire, Kylo Ren existed outside the formal command structure of the First Order and frequently came into conflict with military officials owing to his agenda consistently trumping military objectives. Kylo's placement in the hierarchy not only maintained fear within the Order's upper ranks but also intentionally resembled that of Darth Vader's during the reign of the Old Empire.
[6] It was the prerogative of the Supreme Leader to summon his subordinates at his pleasure, as well as to administer punishment to those who failed him.
[10] Supreme Leader would call conference to discuss goals for the First Order.
The Supreme Council was established under Supreme Leader Kylo Ren as an advisory board to replace the former triumvirate. It was formed by high-ranking members of High Command who served as aides to Ren and had direct access to the highest levels of authority in the First Order, including the Supreme Leader. The council's purpose was to chart and implement the ongoing galactic conquest and plan the future of governing the galaxy. It was composed of Allegiant General Enric Pryde, Admiral Frantis Griss , and Generals Amret Engell , Armitage Hux, Bellava Parnadee , and Domaric Quinn, allowing Ren to focus on spiritual matters as his predecessor had.
[1] Ren anticipated the council would be filled with infighting, to which he considered it good for his reign, as he preferred that they direct their energies against each other, thereby diminishing their chances of uniting against him.
[1] The First Order lacked a traditional planetary capital, preferring mobile headquarters such as the Supremacy or the Steadfast.
Starkiller Base, a superweapon constructed within the planet Ilum, [1] hosted the largest military deployment in the First Order. However, it was not considered the official capital of the First Order because of Supreme Leader Snoke's policy of keeping the Order's headquarters mobile.
[8] Although various officers and allies of the First Order argued for a planet to act as their capital, Snoke rejected this idea and refused to designate capital command to a world either under direct First Order control or within the Unknown Regions, instead opting to command his underlings from his mobile command post, the Mega -class Star Dreadnought Supremacy , making it the First Order's de facto capital.
[91] Military [ ] " My men are exceptionally trained, programmed from birth.
" [6] The Resurgent -class Star Destroyer was a successor to the Imperial -class Star Destroyer.
With its rapidly expanding military in clear violation of the Galactic Concordance and Republic laws, the massive militarization effort of the First Order continued throughout its tenure in the Unknown Regions. There, military bases and shipyards were constructed to churn out some of the technologically superior weapons and starfighters utilized by the Order's military. To avoid treaty restrictions banning the sale of weapons to the First Order, galactic arms manufacturers BlasTech Industries and Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc. spun off a subsidiary known as the Sonn-Blas Corporation, which manufactured much of the First Order's weaponry within First Order space.
Sienar-Jaemus Fleet Systems also helped produce vessels such as the Upsilon -class command shuttle and TIE/fo space superiority fighter , along with its two-seated variant the TIE/sf space superiority fighter.
[8] Sienar-Jaemus Army Systems manufactured the widely used AAL , which could ferry twenty stormtroopers into combat, while the Aratech-Loratus Corporation developed the LIUV ; [8] On ground, the First Order also used a wide range of four-legged walkers similar to Imperial AT-ATs.
[6] In violation of New Republic laws regarding capital ships, Kuat-Entralla Engineering developed the Resurgent -class Star Destroyer, which featured more than 1,500 turbolasers, point-defense laser cannons and ion cannons , and was specifically designed to evoke the fearful image of the Old Empire's Imperial -class Star Destroyers.
 Though smaller than the Imperial Navy at its height, the First Order Navy became a formidable concentration of spaceborne destructive power. Owing to the New Republic's disarmament efforts, the First Order's fleets of Star Destroyers stood almost unchallenged.
[8] Holding to the legacy of the Old Empire, the First Order trained a new generation of stormtroopers.
Like its predecessor , the First Order Stormtrooper Corps was a component of the military that employed the use of stormtroopers, [92] including variants such as snowtroopers.
 It also utilized specialists including megablaster heavy assault troopers , flametroopers , and riot control stormtroopers and selectively had one of the three variants placed in every ten-member stormtrooper squad. Unlike the inconsistent academy standards of the previous Galactic Empire, training of the new generation of stormtroopers emphasized improvisation and counter-insurgency operations, including guerrilla tactics. With the First Order lacking the numerical superiority of the Galactic Empire, better-equipped and -trained soldiers resulted in higher trooper proficiency than the previous Galactic Empire. Soldiers were often trained on capital ships and underwent vivid simulations to create the most loyal soldiers, which was an extension of the ideas of Commandant Brendol Hux and his Commandant's Cadets.
[8] It was strictly forbidden for a stormtrooper to initiate any contact with a officer in line with the First Order view on hierarchy.
[27] Starkiller Base was a First Order superweapon capable of annihilating multiple planets in a single shot.
One of its primary bases of operations was Starkiller Base, an ice planet converted into a stronghold. Seeking to rule the galaxy through fear, the base housed a superweapon capable of destroying entire star systems by firing a planet-destroying beam through hyperspace, and was led by an unofficial triumvirate of General Armitage Hux, Kylo Ren, and Captain Phasma until it was destroyed in the Assault on Starkiller Base.
[6] [93] [8] The scale of the First Order's military operation shocked complacent New Republic observers, who had believed such shows of force were merely part of local defense forces and ceremonial guards.
[14] With the rapid expansion of the First Order's stormtrooper ranks and military capabilities, the Resistance believed that more trooper specializations were yet to be discovered, and ships even larger than the Resurgent -class Star Destroyers existed, [8] such as the Mandator IV -class Siege Dreadnought and the Mega -class Star Dreadnought.
[12] Technological development allowed the First Order to transform a planet into a superlaser platform.
The First Order continued the research into dark energy translations and hyperspace tunneling that had began under the Old Empire, where they repurposed an ice world for the development of a mobile superweapon called Starkiller Base, which used a dark energy called " quintessence " as it offered a virtual unlimited power source, [8] [6] this was made possible after securing logs from secret Imperial laboratories detailing a suitable planet needed with the correct specifications for what would become Starkiller Base with the colossal superlaser array itself built into the planetary crust and would to the Order represent a technological step forward in power.
[94] The Supremacy ' s hyperspace tracker technology was developed for military use.
The First Order also developed the hyperspace tracker which was a type of active tracker with the ability to detect starships traveling through hyperspace developed by First Order scientists. Originally studied by the Tarkin Initiative during the reign of the Empire, the technology was not established for several more decades when a team assembled by General Armitage Hux discovered how to implement the technology. The hyperspace tracker utilized a complex static hyperspace field generator , which enveloped arrays of databanks and computers in a localized hyperspace field that accelerated their calculation speeds to unimaginable rates.
[12] Additionally, the First Order constructed a superlaser siege cannon , which was a form of miniaturized Death Star technology that was capable of firing a devastating energy pulse along a targeting tracer beam to cause a powerful detonation upon impact. Being a two-hundred- meter cannon, it required support, such as having vehicles that were able to maneuver it into position during a siege and could be deployed to have a retractable stabilizing outrigger to ground its bulk.
[12] The First Order had also developed huge data banks loaded with centuries of combat reports and astrogation data. This was aided by a static hyperspace field that accelerated their processing power to an unprecedented level, which was overseen by the Shipboard Tracking Control Complex that was the size of a planetary intelligence hub.
[91] Intelligence [ ] " You're with the First Order now, Terex? " " Yes, and it's Agent Terex. I'm an officer in their intelligence-gathering arm.
" [55] The First Order Security Bureau was the intelligence service of the First Order.
The First Order Security Bureau was the intelligence-gathering arm of the First Order, and was tasked with guarding state secrets and recovering information that had been stolen by the First Order's enemies.
[17] [57] Under Supreme Leader Snoke's directive, First Order agents and other First Order military forces were prohibited from seeking open hostility against forces aligned with the New Republic including the Resistance.
[51] Outside affairs [ ] " We have learned from the mistakes of the Empire—They were too lenient.
" [79] Prior to the fall of the New Republic, the First Order used diplomacy as a means of expanding its influence to other worlds.
The First Order despised the New Republic as an illegitimate regime that tolerated disorder in the galaxy, [6] while the Republic did not officially recognize the First Order as a government, [75] and instead viewed the Order as an ill-organized, poorly equipped, and badly funded group of Imperial loyalists.
[46] As a result, the Republic maintained an almost non-existent relationship with the First Order, resulting in ignored diplomatic protests and observers being denied access; an example of this was during the First Order blockade of the Otomok system to which the galactic government objected but the Order informed them it was an internal affair, which the Republic accepted.
[36] The First Order would attempt to complete their objectives through diplomacy before military action.
In an effort to subvert the New Republic, the First Order also channelled funds through shell and third-party corporations in the Corporate Sector to corrupt Republic senators like Erudo Ro-Kiintor, who blocked motions advocating sanctions against the First Order and increasing support for the New Republic Defense Fleet.
[46] Consequently, the First Order's main military adversary was the Resistance, a private military organization founded by General Leia Organa in response to the Republic's unwillingness to take action against the Order.
[8] The First Order saw its primary mission as restoring order to a lawless galaxy and viewed the Republic and Resistance as obstacles to achieving these goals.
[46] About thirty years after the Battle of Endor, the First Order launched a preemptive attack on the Hosnian system in order to destroy the Republic and force the wider galaxy into submission. Later, the First Order successfully destroyed the Resistance's base on D'Qar. However, the remaining Resistance forces were able to evacuate [6] and continue their fight against the First Order.
[7] The First Order was also known to have dealings with other entities like the Corporate Sector Authority [46] and the Guavian Death Gang.
[6] Judiciary [ ] " Our goal is galactic peace through absolute order.
" [95] In the First Order, disloyalty was regularly punished with public executions.
There was no line between the military and justice in the First Order, which had a merciless attitude towards treason among other things, where it dispensed final justice on anyone with even slight loyalty issues per day ; this was done as several public executions with the executioners coming from the ranks of the Stormtrooper Corps anonymously in rotations, with it being considered an effective method of stormtrooper training. Unlike most stormtrooper variants, they were not from a specialist unit, but were instead randomly picked among regular stormtroopers for that day depending on various assignments and their identity was left anonymous.
[12] Assigned to keep order on worlds within First Order territory, a specialized variant of the standard stormtrooper were trained in riot-control tactics and given non-lethal equipment to suppress any disorder, [96] as well as some lethal weapons, such as the Sonn-Blas F-11D blaster rifle , in case situations spiraled out of control.
[8] The First Order also used cybernetics as a form of punishment by turning someone into a cyborg to ensure loyalty, as was the case with rogue agent Terex.
[97] The First Order would also dismiss any strike action and would send in stormtroopers to enforce and "restore order" as part of a law and order operation, and would simply kill any negotiators to resolve any strike.
[46] The First Order made it illegal to even communicate with the Resistance and considered it an act of treason that would result in being executed, [79] and the act of speaking ill of the Supreme Leader was determined as a crime.
[75] Society and culture [ ] " It is the task of the First Order to remove the disorder from our own existence, so that civilization may be returned to the stability that promotes progress. A stability that existed under the Empire, was reduced to anarchy by the Rebellion, was inherited in turn by the so-called Republic, and will be restored by us. Future historians will look upon this as the time when a strong hand brought the rule of law back to civilization.
" [98] The First Order was a totalitarian fascist society located on the far side of the galaxy.
Growing up in isolation on the far side of the galaxy gave citizens of the First Order an Imperially-skewed version of galactic history, [8] where, according to some, they adopted a radical fascist [99] neo-Imperialism political ideology, basing it values on a fanatical devotion to the totalitarian notions of "order" and violent disdain for the New Republic and democracy.
[2] Under the guidance of Imperial veterans, along with approved literature, vids, and mandatory viewings of morale sessions twice a day for stormtrooper cadets, officers learned of their glorious past and how they had been robbed of it by terrorists and rebels, who later called themselves the New Republic. Many believed only they could have the power necessary to wrest the galaxy from a path of chaos and corruption.
[8] This claim was not without some basis. The New Republic's corruption and ineffectiveness was plain to see across the galaxy, from its citizens to the Resistance and the First Order. In fact, this corruption was one of the First Order's most potent weapons, as they ensured their agenda met with no interference from the Senate. The First Order's citizens saw this as proof the Rebellion was built on false promises, and that rebels could only tear down a government, not build one.
[5] A large number of individuals in the First Order were non-human aliens who were effectively second-class citizens. This was apparent in the First Order propaganda and labor policies.
[46] Pre-recorded speeches often filled the airwaves, in which General Armitage Hux commented on instances of the Republic's depravity, including famines on Ibaar and Adarlon , the brutal suppression of the people of Balamak , and unchecked alien advances throughout the Outer Rim. Following these reports were stories of First Order victories such as liberating labor camps on Iktotch or winning a fleet battle in the Bormea sector.
 Despite these patriotic functions and rallies, the First Order heavily relied on the brutal suppression of dissent and unpatriotic activities. Riot control stormtroopers were specially trained to quash insurrection, with live-fire dispersal of protesters permitted. Industrial unrest such as the Strike at Pressy's Tumble were blamed on New Republic agents. According to the First Order, the Jedi were officially extinct, and it was forbidden to pronounce Kylo Ren's birth name by order of Supreme Leader Snoke.
[46] [8] To boost morale, the First Order utilized a commemorative rank insignia system , issuing armbands bearing the names of famous units and heroes of the Galactic Civil War. Many in the military believed that despite being outnumbered by the New Republic Starfleet, their technological superiority was so complete that even their smaller navy stood virtually unchallenged.
[8] The First Order conscripted human children, and indoctrinated them with state propaganda, ensuring absolute loyalty and devotion to its cause.
The First Order had no qualms with inducting children into direct combat.
[12] The most infamous example of the latter was the stormtroopers of the First Order, which forcibly subjected any children of worlds conquered by the First Order to military training.
[12] [8] Because the First Order trained its soldiers from childhood, several members had very high ranks despite their youth technically making them closer to junior officers, in contrast to the Empire's Sub-Adult Group , which promoted patriotism without subjecting its members to direct combat.
[12] However brutal, the First Order's recruitment methods were lauded by their personnel and even by some of their conscripts. Many of the children the First Order recruited came from poor, impoverished Outer Rim worlds, where lawlessness was rampant and the residents had few to no prospects in life. Due to these horrific conditions, many of the people happily surrendered their children to the First Order willingly, either hoping they would have a better life or simply desiring payment and/or one or more fewer mouths to feed. Some freelance recruiters for the First Order agreed these children were better off under the First Order than on their homeworlds; one bragged that Athulla was such a "nightmare" the First Order was doing its children a favor.
[13] One of these impoverished children inducted into the First Order's ranks, from the desert world of Jakku, would rise to become a respected officer in the First Order: Captain Cardinal. Other orphan children were recruited by force against their will while others were outright kidnapped from their families.
[5] The Benathy submitted to the First Order after their god was slain by Kylo Ren.
Once recruited, citizens and soldiers of the First Order were indoctrinated to have a strong sense of duty, loyalty, and obedience to the state, and taught to forgo their personal desires for the greater good of the First Order. To this end, recruits abandoned their previous lives and identities upon their induction into the First Order and submitted to being identified by a numerical code. Senior officers and distinguished members of the Stormtrooper Corps, such as Phasma and Cardinal, were not expected to do so. First Order citizens were educated to believe it had been the pursuit of individual selfishness and desires that led the Rebel Alliance to topple the Old Empire. They were also taught that the rebels were short-sighted terrorists who could not see the benefit of the Old Empire, and instead started a war that forced it to crack down on personal liberties in response.
[5] The Benathy were not only indoctrinated into First Order ideology but worshiped the totalitarian regime itself after the death of the Zillo Beast that they worshiped as their god.
[100] Despite this doctrine, First Order military training heavily emphasized individual strength and improvisation, both physically and mentally. Training programs that were mandatory for all recruits beginning at a young age became progressively more severe as they grew to adulthood. The First Order, like the Empire before it, believed the strong naturally rose to power, while the weaker were left to serve their natural leaders.
[5] Sometime during one's life within the First Order, they took an oath, one in which both high-ranking members such as General Artimage Hux or soldiers such as the former FN-2187 were cited as recipients, and in the First Order, renouncing that oath made them seen as something worse than even a Resistance fighter.
[98] Economy [ ] Pillaging entire worlds filled the First Order's coffers with various currencies, including coins minted from precious metals.
The First Order economy was tightly controlled, partly due to treaty restrictions that prevented major galactic corporations from selling arms to the First Order, owing to it Imperial origins. Nevertheless, they had dealings with the Aratech-Loratus Corporation, Rebaxan Columni , Sienar-Jaemus Fleet Systems, Kuat-Entralla Engineering, and Sonn-Blas Corporation—a subsidiary of the First Order military's major arms manufacturers, Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc. and BlasTech Industries. The First Order plundered the worlds within its domain in order to fill its coffers with various currencies, particularly coins minted from precious metals, such as aurei , peggats , and zemids , all of which had universal value as they could be melted down.
[12] The credit was also a recognized currency in the First Order economy, [11] although by then coinage made from valuable metals was considered preferable to electronic currencies, especially in an era of instability.
[12] Having amassed a vast treasury through conquest and plunder, [12] the First Order used its profits to purchase weapons from war profiteers on Cantonica in the Corporate Sector.
[101] [10] They also channeled large sums of money through shells and third-party corporations with help from the Corporate Sector Authority.
[46] To avoid the terms of the Galactic Concordance which included the sale of weapons to the Order, arms manufacturers BlasTech Industries and Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc.
opted to bypass these restrictions by forming a subsidiary known as the Sonn-Blas Corporation, which manufactured all weapons within First Order space, while Sienar-Jaemus Army Systems and Aratech-Loratus Corporation would develop spacecraft and vehicles to the Order.
[8] Infrastructure [ ] The First Order upheld a number of factories and mines.
The airwaves infrastructure in the First Order was under full state oversight and had tight restrictions and censorship imposed on it, which were often filled with pre recorded speeches in line with military objectives, this was there-for used by the ruling junta to maintain its control of the masses by using propaganda.
[46] [8] The First Order utilized a form of holographic technology that could show the user in full color and lacked any scan lines as part of its communications systems.
[6] The Supremacy communication complex was used to watch HoloNet traffic throughout the galaxy, this was to help identify trends and weaknesses that the First Order could use to further their goals, it could also be used to dispatched orders to agents operating within both New Republic and independent space.
[12] The Supremacy also held industrial capabilities including research labs and factories onboard, this housed departments for conception, research and well-stocked raw materials reserves, eight durasteel foundries as well as an asteroid mining complex for harvesting raw materials directly from asteroid fields, as well as state-of-the-art production lines that could not be cut off from supply lines. It also had at least eight droid manufacturing facilities.
[91] Station Theta Black space station was used to mine and process dedlanite to make blasters for the army.
[102] Astrography [ ] " The First Order will control all the major systems within weeks.
" [10] First Order Space was located in the Unknown Regions and Outer Rim Territories of the galaxy for the majority of it history The territory of the First Order was located in the galaxy's Outer Rim Territories [2] and the large, unexplored Unknown Regions beyond the frontier to the west of the Core. An area of space outside of the New Republic's supervision, it served as the First Order and its associates' refuge.
[46] The overall territory was known as First Order Space [2] with the emerging power having expanded across the vast swaths of space left untouched for millennia by galactic explorers, [12] including Demir.
[103] Numerous shipyards, bases, and research facilities were also built on newly explored star systems and colonized worlds as the Order slowly expanded and plotted its eventual return to the galaxy at large.
[8] The First Order undertook a major offensive against several of these kingdoms to seize their worlds and resources to fuel their rise.
[27] [104] [47] The First Order's domain beyond 29 ABY, [16] expanded into the known galaxy through the annexation of a bloc of star systems that seceded from the New Republic.
[1] The Centrists, a political faction in the Galactic Senate, [45] wanted a more centralized government than the one offered by the New Republic. As a result, the systems that identified with Centrist politics joined the First Order, marking its official formation as a galactic government.
[1] At the time when the Centrists called for secession, the planets that supported their political goals included Arkanis , Comra , Coruscant, Daxam IV , Hevurion , Kuat , Orinda , and Riosa.
[45] The Trans-Hydian Borderlands served as a neutral zone between First Order Space and the New Republic during the Cold War.
A narrow region of neutral systems known as the Trans-Hydian Borderlands existed between New Republic and First Order space as a result of the Cold War between the two galactic powers, with peace negotiations leading to its service as a formal buffer zone. Despite frequent First Order incursions into Republic space, the Galactic Senate did not wish to spark a conflict, and thus was limited to formal diplomatic protest.
[46] First Order assets, including galactic arms-manufacturing corporations such as BlasTech Industries and Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc.'s Sonn-Blas Corporation subsidiary, took root and operated from within the region to evade the arms-selling restrictions mandated by First Order–New Republic treaty.
[8] After capturing Lor San Tekka on Cato Neimoidia, First Order officer Terex traveled to First Order Space and met with Captain Phasma aboard the Resurgent -class Star Destroyer Absolution.
[105] The First Order increased its territorial extent through galactic conquest after the New Republic's destruction.
[1] Its military presence extended to various inhabited worlds, including Bespin, Jakku, and Endor.
[7] Kijimi was also conquered and placed under military occupation. No longer required to observe treaties with a fallen government, the First Order deployed its stormtroopers across the galaxy, making the white-armored soldier a common sight once more.
[1] Behind the scenes [ ] " That all came out of conversations about what would have happened if the Nazis all went to Argentina but then started working together again? What could be born of that? Could The First Order exist as a group that actually admired The Empire? Could the work of The Empire be seen as unfulfilled? And could Vader be a martyr? Could there be a need to see through what didn't get done? " [106] The First Order was created for the 2015 film Star Wars : Episode VII The Force Awakens and was developed through conversations amongst the production team. According to J.J. Abrams , the film's director, the team wondered what would have happened if the Nazis who went into hiding in Argentina after World War II started working together again. Abrams hinted that the First Order would therefore be a group that admired the Galactic Empire and felt that its work was unfulfilled.
[106] The First Order's exact nature during the development of the film was kept secret since the film's announcement. On August 10 , 2015, the official Star Wars Twitter and GooglePlus accounts unveiled an image of the First Order congregating at Starkiller Base.
[107] Costume designer Michael Kaplan said the First Order uniforms were designed to look severe, "very hard edge, very broad shoulders, very angular, geometric." He cited inspiration from French fashion designer Thierry Mugler.
[108] Appearances [ ] Star Wars: Force Arena † 5-Minute Star Wars Villain Stories Star Wars Battlefront II Darth Vader (2017) 25 (Voice only) Star Wars: Starfighter Missions Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure (First mentioned, simultaneous with audiobook ) Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure audiobook (First mentioned, simultaneous with Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure ) Aftermath: Empire's End (Indirect mention only) Aftermath: Empire's End audiobook (Indirect mention only) Shadow of the Sith Shadow of the Sith audiobook Age of Resistance - Rose Tico 1 Bloodline Bloodline audiobook Age of Resistance - Supreme Leader Snoke 1 The Legends of Luke Skywalker (Mentioned only) The Legends of Luke Skywalker audiobook (Mentioned only) Age of Resistance - Poe Dameron 1 (Indirect mention only) Before the Awakening Poe and the Missing Ship Poe Dameron 1 Poe Dameron 2 Poe Dameron 3 Poe Dameron 4 Poe Dameron 5 Poe Dameron 6 Star Wars Special: C-3PO 1 Force Collector Force Collector audiobook Age of Resistance - Finn 1 " Robot Resistance " — Age of Resistance Special 1 Age of Resistance - General Hux 1 Age of Resistance - Kylo Ren 1 Join the Resistance Poe Dameron 7 Poe Dameron 8 Poe Dameron 9 Poe Dameron 10 Poe Dameron 11 Poe Dameron 12 Poe Dameron 13 Poe Dameron 14 Poe Dameron 15 Poe Dameron 16 Poe Dameron 17 Poe Dameron 18 Poe Dameron 19 Poe Dameron Annual 1 Poe Dameron Annual 2 Poe Dameron 20 (Mentioned only) Poe Dameron 21 (Mentioned only, in the opening crawl) Poe Dameron 22 Poe Dameron 23 Poe Dameron 24 Poe Dameron 25 Star Wars Resistance — " The Recruit " " The Recruit - Part 1 " — Star Wars Resistance Animation 1 " The Recruit - Part 2 " — Star Wars Resistance Animation 2 Star Wars Resistance — " The Triple Dark " Star Wars Resistance — " The High Tower " Star Wars Resistance — " The Children from Tehar " Star Wars Resistance — " Signal from Sector Six " (Mentioned only) Star Wars Resistance — " Synara's Score " (Appears in hologram) Star Wars Resistance — " Secrets and Holograms " Star Wars Resistance — " Station Theta Black " Star Wars Resistance — " Treasure Chest " " All Aces Battle Royale " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 16 Star Wars Resistance — " Bibo " Star Wars Resistance — " Dangerous Business " Star Wars Resistance — " The Doza Dilemma " " Sector 7-E " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 17 (Appears in dream) Star Wars Resistance — " The First Order Occupation " Phasma Phasma audiobook Star Wars Resistance — " The New Trooper " The Last Jedi: Cobalt Squadron The Last Jedi: Cobalt Squadron audiobook Join the Resistance: Escape from Vodran Forces of Destiny: The Rey Chronicles (Mentioned only) " Pest Control " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 3 " Destroyer Down " — Star Wars Adventures: Destroyer Down (Mentioned only) Age of Resistance - Captain Phasma 1 Hyperspace Stories 8 Star Wars Resistance — " The Core Problem " Star Wars Resistance — " The Disappeared " Star Wars Resistance — " Descent " Star Wars : Episode VII The Force Awakens (First appearance) Star Wars: The Force Awakens novelization Star Wars: The Force Awakens audiobook Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel audiobook The Force Awakens Little Golden Book The Force Awakens Read-Along Storybook and CD Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures — " An Unlikely Friendship " Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures — " The First Order vs. The Resistance " Star Wars: The Force Awakens Graphic Novel Adaptation The Force Awakens Adaptation 1 The Force Awakens: Rey's Story The Force Awakens: Rey's Story audiobook The Force Awakens: Finn's Story Rolling with BB-8! Rey to the Rescue! Finn & the First Order Finn and Poe Team Up! The Force Awakens Adaptation 2 Finn & Rey Escape! Han & Chewie Return! (Mentioned only) The Force Awakens Adaptation 3 The Force Awakens Adaptation 4 Chaos at the Castle The Force Awakens Adaptation 5 Choose Your Destiny: A Maz's Castle Mission The Force Awakens Adaptation 6 BB-8 on the Run Star Wars: Forces of Destiny—Rey (Appears through imagination) Galaxy's Edge: Black Spire Galaxy's Edge: Black Spire audiobook A Call for Heroes Star Wars Resistance — " No Escape: Part 1 " Star Wars Resistance — " No Escape: Part 2 " Star Wars Resistance — " Into the Unknown " Join the Resistance: Attack on Starkiller Base Star Wars Forces of Destiny — " Perilous Pursuit " Captain Phasma 1 Age of Resistance - Rey 1 (In flashback(s)) Captain Phasma 2 Captain Phasma 3 Captain Phasma 4 Star Wars Adventures Ashcan (In flashback(s)) " Rules of the Game " — Canto Bight (Mentioned only) " Rules of the Game " — Canto Bight audiobook (Mentioned only) " Hear Nothing, See Nothing, Say Nothing " — Canto Bight (Mentioned only) " Hear Nothing, See Nothing, Say Nothing " — Canto Bight audiobook (Mentioned only) " The Ride " — Canto Bight (Mentioned only) " The Ride " — Canto Bight audiobook (Mentioned only) " Rose Knows " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 6 Star Wars: The Last Jedi – DJ – Most Wanted 1 (Mentioned only; in the opening crawl) Star Wars : Episode VIII The Last Jedi Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition audiobook Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel audiobook The Last Jedi: Rey's Journey The Last Jedi: Rose and Finn's Secret Mission The Last Jedi Adaptation 1 The Last Jedi Adaptation 2 The Last Jedi Adaptation 3 The Last Jedi Adaptation 4 The Last Jedi Adaptation 5 The Last Jedi Adaptation 6 " Life Lessons " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 26 (Mentioned only) Star Wars: Droid Repair Bay Star Wars Resistance — " A Quick Salvage Run " Star Wars Resistance — " Live Fire " Star Wars Resistance — " Hunt on Celsor 3 " (Mentioned only) Star Wars Resistance — " The Engineer " Star Wars Resistance — " The Relic Raiders " Star Wars Resistance — " Rendezvous Point " Star Wars Resistance — " Kaz's Curse " (Mentioned only) Poe Dameron 26 (In flashback(s)) Poe Dameron 27 (In flashback(s)) Poe Dameron 28 (In flashback(s)) Poe Dameron 29 (Mentioned only) Poe Dameron 30 (In flashback(s)) Poe Dameron 31 Resistance Reborn Resistance Reborn audiobook " Through the Turbulence " — Stories of Jedi and Sith (Mentioned only) " Through the Turbulence " — Stories of Jedi and Sith audiobook (Mentioned only) Star Wars Resistance — " Station to Station " Star Wars Resistance — " The Missing Agent " Star Wars Resistance — " Breakout " Star Wars Resistance — " The Mutiny " (Mentioned only) Star Wars Resistance — " The New World " (Mentioned only) Star Wars Resistance — " No Place Safe " Star Wars Resistance — " Rebuilding the Resistance " Allegiance 1 Allegiance 2 Allegiance 3 (Appears on screen) Allegiance 4 " Ghosts of Kashyyyk, Part 1 " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 27 " Ghosts of Kashyyyk, Part 2 " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 28 " Ghosts of Kashyyyk, Part 3 " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 29 " Secret Agent Droids, Part 1 " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 27 " Secret Agent Droids, Part 2 " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 28 " Secret Agent Droids, Part 3 " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 29 Choose Your Destiny: A Finn & Poe Adventure Spark of the Resistance Spark of the Resistance audiobook " Loyalty Test " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 30 " Flight of the Falcon, Part 5: Grand Theft Falcon " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 18 (Indirect mention only) (In flashback(s)) Star Wars Adventures: Flight of the Falcon (Mentioned only) Galaxy's Edge 1 Galaxy's Edge 2 Galaxy's Edge 3 Galaxy's Edge 4 Galaxy's Edge 5 A Crash of Fate A Crash of Fate audiobook " Buyer Beware " — Dark Legends (Mentioned only) (In flashback(s)) " Bakurat " — Dark Legends (In flashback(s)) " Black Spire: Return to a Shattered Planet " — Galaxy's Edge: Black Spire Star Wars : Galaxy's Edge Star Wars: Batuu Bounty Hunters (Mentioned only) Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures — " Black Spire Outpost " Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures — " Millennium Falcon - Smugglers Run " Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures — " Rise of the Resistance " Star Wars : Datapad Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy's Edge (Mentioned only) Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy's Edge – Last Call Halcyon Legacy 1 (Mentioned only) Halcyon Legacy 3 (Mentioned only) Halcyon Legacy 4 (In flashback(s)) Halcyon Legacy 5 (Appears in hologram) Star Wars : Galactic Starcruiser " See You Around, Kid " — Star Wars (2020) 25 " Squad Goals " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 31 (Mentioned only) " The Battle for Horizon Base " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 32 " The Obstacle Course, Part 1 " — Star Wars Adventures (2020) 1 (Mentioned only) " The Obstacle Course, Part 2 " — Star Wars Adventures (2020) 2 (Mentioned only) " Repair Stop " — Star Wars Adventures (2020) 13 " Repair Stop, Part II " — Star Wars Adventures (2020) 14 Hyperspace Stories 3 Hyperspace Stories 4 " Tales of Villainy: Follow and Lead " — Star Wars Adventures (2020) 2 " Tales from Wild Space: Mattis Makes a Stand " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 4 (Mentioned only) " The Lost Stories, Part 1 " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 30 " The Lost Stories, Part 3 " — Star Wars Adventures (2017) 32 (Picture only) Star Wars Resistance — " The Escape " Star Wars : Episode IX The Rise of Skywalker Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures — " Kylo Ren vs. Resistance Rebels " Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition audiobook Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel audiobook Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker Graphic Novel Adaptation The Rise of Skywalker Adaptation 1 " A Eulogy for Snap " — Star Wars (2020) 25 (Mentioned only) Non-canon appearances [ ] Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes LEGO Star Wars: The Force Awakens LEGO Star Wars: The Resistance Rises — " Poe to the Rescue " LEGO Star Wars: The Resistance Rises — " The Trouble with Rathtars " LEGO Star Wars: The Resistance Rises — " Attack of the Conscience " LEGO Star Wars: All-Stars — " Scouting for Leia/A Mission with Maz " LEGO Star Wars: All-Stars — " Rolling with BB-8/Resistance on the Run " Star Wars: Puzzle Droids Star Wars Blips — " The Chase " LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season — " Sithmas Battle " LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga Sources [ ] " Launch Pad " — Star Wars Insider 158 " Launch Pad " — Star Wars Insider 159 LEGO Star Wars : Episode VII The Force Awakens (Set: 75104 Kylo Ren's Command Shuttle ) LEGO Star Wars : Episode VII The Force Awakens (Set: 75101 First Order Special Forces TIE Fighter ) LEGO Star Wars : Episode VII The Force Awakens (Set: 75100 First Order Snowspeeder ) Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know LEGO Star Wars : Episode VII The Force Awakens (Set: 75103 First Order Transporter ) " Blaster " — Star Wars Insider 160 Rey's Survival Guide Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections Star Wars: The Force Awakens: New Adventures Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary Star Wars: The Black Series (Pack: Poe Dameron ) ( backup link ) Star Wars: The Black Series (Pack: Poe Dameron ) ( backup link ) Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Head-to-Head Star Wars Expert Guide Star Wars Helmet Collection 8 ( Databank A-Z: Master Chief Bric–C-3PO ) Star Wars: Build the Millennium Falcon 69 ( Secrets of Spaceflight: Smuggling Partnerships ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 10 ( Databank A-Z: Chewbacca–Cloud City ) Star Wars: ABC-3PO Star Wars Helmet Collection 13 ( Databank A-Z: Poe Dameron–Delta 7-B ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 17 ( Databank A-Z: Ewoks–Finn (FN-2187) ) Star Wars: The Force Awakens Beginner Game Star Wars Helmet Collection 18 ( Databank A-Z: First Order–Fyrnocks ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 18 ( Helmets: First Order Stormtroopers ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 18 ( Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Jakku ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 18 ( Weapons & Uniforms: The First Order ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 19 ( Databank A-Z: GA-97–Geonosis ) Star Wars: Complete Locations Star Wars: X-Wing Deluxe Book and Model Set Star Wars Helmet Collection 21 ( Databank A-Z: Greedo–Gundarks ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 21 ( Helmets: Kylo Ren ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 21 ( Highlights of the Saga: Raid on Takodana ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 21 ( Weapons & Uniforms: Maz Kanata's Castle ) Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy Poe Dameron: Flight Log Star Wars : Destiny — Awakenings (Card: Anticipate ) ( backup link ) (Picture only) Star Wars: Galactic Atlas Star Wars Helmet Collection 23 ( Databank A-Z: Hassk Triplets–Holograms ) Princess Leia: Royal Rebel Star Wars Helmet Collection 24 ( Databank A-Z: The HoloNet–General Hux ) Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One Star Wars Helmet Collection 26 ( Databank A-Z: Imperial Future Council–Inquisitorius ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 27 ( Databank A-Z: InterGalactic Banking Clan–Jakku ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 27 ( Weapons & Uniforms: The Wookiees ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 28 ( Databank A-Z: Queen Jamillia–Jedi Temples ) Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2 6 ( Droid Directory: EGL Power Droids ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 31 ( Databank A-Z: Kaminoans–King Katuunko ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 31 ( Helmets: Poe Dameron ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 31 ( Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Starkiller Base ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 31 ( Weapons & Uniforms: The Resistance ) Star Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia Star Wars Helmet Collection 35 ( Databank A-Z: Kyber Crystals–Laser Cannons ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 36 ( Databank A-Z: Cut Lawquane–Lothal ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 39 ( Databank A-Z: Kwazel Maw–Sly Moore ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 40 ( Databank A-Z: Moraband–Muftak ) Star Wars: On the Front Lines Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away Star Wars Helmet Collection 42 ( Helmets: Captain Phasma ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 42 ( Highlights of the Saga: Infiltrating Starkiller Base ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 42 ( Weapons & Uniforms: The New Republic ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 43 ( Databank A-Z: Leia Organa ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 43 ( Helmets: Flametrooper ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 43 ( Highlights of the Saga: Breakout ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 43 ( Weapons & Uniforms: Inhabitants of Jakku ) Star Wars Look and Find (Journey to Star Wars: The Last Jedi ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 44 ( Helmets: Snowtrooper ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 44 ( Highlights of the Saga: Striking at the New Republic ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 44 ( Weapons & Uniforms: Starkiller Base Personnel ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 45 ( Databank A-Z: Petranaki Arena–Proton Torpedoes ) Star Wars: The Black Series (Pack: Luke Skywalker (Jedi Master) ) ( backup link ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 46 ( Databank A-Z: Providence -class–Raxus ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 46 ( Helmets: Resistance Trooper ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 46 ( Highlights of the Saga: The Hunt for Luke Skywalker ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 46 ( Weapons & Uniforms: Heroes of the Resistance ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 47 ( Databank A-Z: Max Rebo–Sabacc ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 48 ( Databank A-Z: Sabe–The Separatist Council ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 48 ( Helmets: First Order TIE Pilot ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 48 ( Highlights of the Saga: Fire on Jakku ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 48 ( Weapons & Uniforms: First Order Fleet Personnel ) Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z Star Wars Helmet Collection 49 ( Databank A-Z: Serenno–Anakin Skywalker ) Star Wars: The Rebel Files Star Wars: A-wing Deluxe Book and 3D Wood Model Star Wars Helmet Collection 50 ( Databank A-Z: Luke Skywalker–Han Solo ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 50 ( Helmets: Jess Pava ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 50 ( Highlights of the Saga: The Search for Lor San Tekka ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 50 ( Weapons & Uniforms: D'Qar Resistance Base Personnel ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 51 ( Databank A-Z: Soulless One –Super Battle Droids ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 51 ( Weapons & Uniforms: Dark Side Servants ) Star Wars: The Last Jedi Activity Book with Stickers Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Heroes of the Galaxy Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Incredible Cross-Sections Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Ultimate Sticker Collection The Last Jedi: Bomber Command Star Wars Helmet Collection 52 ( Databank A-Z: Hera Syndulla–Ahsoka Tano ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 52 ( Highlights of the Saga: Reclaiming the Falcon ) Star Wars: The Black Series (Pack: Finn (First Order Disguise) ) ( backup link ) Star Wars: Lightsaber Battles Star Wars Helmet Collection 53 ( Helmets: Nien Nunb ) Star Wars Bust Collection 1 ( Star Wars Universe: Darth Vader ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 54 ( Databank A-Z: Tauntaun–TIE Craft ) Star Wars Bust Collection 2 ( Behind the Cameras: Evolution of the Stormtroopers ) Star Wars Bust Collection 2 ( Star Wars Universe: Stormtroopers ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 57 ( Databank A-Z: Trident Assault Ship–Turbolasers ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 58 ( Weapons & Uniforms: 2-1Bs in the Galaxy ) Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles Star Wars Helmet Collection 59 ( Helmets: Sidon Ithano ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 59 ( Highlights of the Saga: Help from an Old Friend ) The Last Jedi: Rose Tico: Resistance Fighter Star Wars Helmet Collection 61 ( Databank A-Z: Unknown Regions–Utai ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 67 ( Databank A-Z: Vibroblades–Cikatro Vizago ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 67 ( Weapons & Uniforms: Blade Squadron ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 68 ( Helmets: First Order Fleet Engineer ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 68 ( Highlights of the Saga: Saving D'Qar ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 68 ( Weapons & Uniforms: The Finalizer ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 69 ( Databank A-Z: Vulptex–Wampas ) Star Wars: Resistance Bomber Book and 3D Wood Model Star Wars: The Black Series (Pack: Force FX Z6 Riot Control Baton ) ( backup link ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 71 ( Databank A-Z: Zam Wesell–Wexley ) Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition Star Wars Helmet Collection 72 ( Highlights of the Saga: Luke's Journey in the Force ) Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious Star Wars: Women of the Galaxy Star Wars Helmet Collection 74 ( Helmets: Ello Asty ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 74 ( Highlights of the Saga: Oddy Muva's Revenge ) Star Wars Helmet Collection 74 ( Weapons & Uniforms: Black Squadron ) Star Wars: Droidography Star Wars Resistance Rewind #1.6 | Whispers of the First Order on the official Star Wars YouTube channel ( backup link ) ( Posted on StarWars.com ) Star Wars: Smuggler's Guide Star Wars Helmet Collection 75 ( Databank A-Z: The X-wing Starfighter ) Star Wars: The Dark Side Star Wars Helmet Collection 77 ( Databank A-Z: Grand Master Yoda ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — First Order Conversion Kit Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — First Order Conversion Kit (Card: Biohexacrypt Code ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — First Order Conversion Kit (Card: Captain Phasma ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — First Order Conversion Kit (Card: Commander Malarus ) (Reissued in TIE/fo Fighter Expansion Pack ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — First Order Conversion Kit (Card: Epsilon Squadron Cadet ) (Reissued in TIE/fo Fighter Expansion Pack ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — First Order Conversion Kit (Card: Fanatical ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — First Order Conversion Kit (Card: First Order Test Pilot ) (Reissued in TIE/vn space superiority fighter ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — First Order Conversion Kit (Card: General Hux ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — First Order Conversion Kit (Card: Hyperspace Tracking Data ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — First Order Conversion Kit (Card: Kylo Ren (Crew) ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — First Order Conversion Kit (Card: Omega Squadron Ace ) (Reissued in TIE/fo Fighter Expansion Pack ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — First Order Conversion Kit (Card: Omega Squadron Expert ) (Reissued in TIE/sf Fighter Expansion Pack ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — First Order Conversion Kit (Card: Petty Officer Thanisson (Crew) ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — First Order Conversion Kit (Card: Special Forces Gunner ) (Reissued in TIE/sf Fighter Expansion Pack ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — First Order Conversion Kit (Card: Starkiller Base Pilot ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — First Order Conversion Kit (Card: Supreme Leader Snoke ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — First Order Conversion Kit (Card: Zeta Squadron Pilot ) (Reissued in TIE/fo Fighter Expansion Pack ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Resistance Conversion Kit (Card: Black Squadron Ace ) (Reissued in T-70 X-Wing Expansion Pack , Heralds of Hope Squadron Pack ) Star Wars: The Black Series Centerpiece (Pack: Kylo Ren ) ( backup link ) Star Wars: The Black Series (Pack: DJ (Canto Bight) ) ( backup link ) (Indirect mention only) Star Wars Resistance: Meet the Pilots Star Wars Helmet Collection 79 ( Databank A-Z: Zabrak–Zillo Beast ) Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing 26 ( Starfighter Aces: Poe Dameron – Black Leader ) Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing 32 ( Starfighter Aces: Jessika Pava – Always in Control ) Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition Star Wars Search and Find Volume I 2019 Topps Star Wars Resistance Surprise Packs (Card: Kragan Gorr ) ( backup link ) The Rebellion | Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts on the official Star Wars Kids YouTube channel ( backup link ) The Empire | Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts on the official Star Wars Kids YouTube channel ( backup link ) TIE Fighter Owners' Workshop Manual The Star Wars Timeline | Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts on the official Star Wars Kids YouTube channel ( backup link ) Star Wars: The Black Series (Pack: The First Order 4-Pack (Mountain Trooper) ) ( backup link ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Resistance Transport Expansion Pack (Card: Logisitics Division Pilot ) Every Droid in Star Wars | Star Wars By the Numbers on the official Star Wars Kids YouTube channel (content now obsolete; backup link ) " The False Economies of Scale " — Star Wars Insider 192 Ultimate Star Wars, New Edition The First Order | Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts on the official Star Wars Kids YouTube channel ( backup link ) Rebel Starfighters Owners' Workshop Manual Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Epic Battles Multiplayer Expansion (Card: First Order Elite ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Huge Ship Conversion Kit Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Huge Ship Conversion Kit (Card: First Order Collaborators ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Huge Ship Conversion Kit (Card: First Order Sympathizers ) Star Wars: The Secrets of the Jedi Star Wars : Card Trader (Set: 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Captain Canady - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Captain Phasma - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Chewbacca - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Commander Pyre - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: DJ - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Finn - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: First Order Jetpack Trooper - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: First Order Snowtrooper - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: First Order Stormtrooper - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: First Order Stormtrooper Sergeant - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Ilco Munica - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Jannah - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Kylo Ren - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Major Vonreg - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Princess Leia - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: R2-D2 - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Rose Tico - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Sith Jetpack Trooper - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Sith Trooper - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Zorii Bliss - 2020 Base Series ) Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker – The Official Collector's Edition Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Galactic Guide Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary " Battle Beyond the Stars " — Star Wars Insider 194 Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Major Vonreg's TIE Expansion Pack Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Major Vonreg's TIE Expansion Pack (Card: Deuterium Power Cells ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Major Vonreg's TIE Expansion Pack (Card: False Tradition ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Major Vonreg's TIE Expansion Pack (Card: Proud Tradition ) (Picture only) The Art of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker Star Wars : Card Trader (Set: Topps' Women of Star Wars ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Agent Tierny - Topps' Women of Star Wars ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Korr Sella - Topps' Women of Star Wars ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Paige Tico - Topps' Women of Star Wars ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Pamich Nerro Goode - Topps' Women of Star Wars ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Princess Leia Organa - Topps' Women of Star Wars ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Tallie Lintra - Topps' Women of Star Wars ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Zorii Bliss - Topps' Women of Star Wars ) Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: Traveler's Guide to Batuu Star Wars : Card Trader (Set: 2020 Base Series 2 ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Admiral Ackbar - 2020 Base Series 2 ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: BB-8 - 2020 Base Series 2 ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Bazine Netal - 2020 Base Series 2 ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: First Order Executioner Stormtrooper - 2020 Base Series 2 ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: General Leia Organa - 2020 Base Series 2 ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Paige Tico - 2020 Base Series 2 ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Poe Dameron ( The Last Jedi ) - 2020 Base Series 2 ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Poe Dameron - 2020 Base Series 2 ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: R2-D2 & C-3PO - 2020 Base Series 2 ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Rose Tico - 2020 Base Series 2 ) Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Tallie Lintra - 2020 Base Series 2 ) Every Ship in the Star Wars Sequel Trilogy | Star Wars By the Numbers on the official Star Wars Kids YouTube channel (content now obsolete; backup link ) Star Wars: The Black Series (Pack: Mountain Trooper ) ( backup link ) " Imperial Troops " — Star Wars Encyclopedia Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Xi- class Light Shuttle Expansion Pack Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Xi-class Light Shuttle Expansion Pack (Card: Agent Terex (Crew) ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Xi-class Light Shuttle Expansion Pack (Card: Agent Terex (Cyborg) ) (Picture only) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Xi-class Light Shuttle Expansion Pack (Card: Commander Malarus (Crew) ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Xi-class Light Shuttle Expansion Pack (Card: Commander Malarus (Perfected) ) (Picture only) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Xi-class Light Shuttle Expansion Pack (Card: First Order Courier ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Xi-class Light Shuttle Expansion Pack (Card: Sensor Buoy (Blue) ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Xi-class Light Shuttle Expansion Pack (Card: Sensor Buoy (Red) ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Xi-class Light Shuttle Expansion Pack (Card: Sensor Buoy Suite ) " R2-D2 " — Star Wars Encyclopedia The Star Wars Book Star Wars: The Lightsaber Collection "The Prisoner" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian on StarWars.com ( backup link ) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Heralds of Hope Squadron Pack Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Heralds of Hope Squadron Pack (Card: Backwards Tailslide ) (Picture only) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Heralds of Hope Squadron Pack (Card: C'ai Threnalli ) (Picture only) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Heralds of Hope Squadron Pack (Card: Seftin Vanik ) (Picture only) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Heralds of Hope Squadron Pack (Card: Starbird Slash ) (Picture only) Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition — Heralds of Hope Squadron Pack (Card: Suralinda Javos ) (Picture only) Sixth Scale Figures (Pack: Sith Jet Trooper ) ( backup link ) " Resistance to the End " — Star Wars Insider 198 " Snoke & Mirrors: Emperor Palpatine's Top 5 Proxies " — Star Wars Insider 198 " Republic, Rebel, and Resistance Starfighters " — Star Wars Encyclopedia Sixth Scale Figures (Pack: Jet Trooper ) ( backup link ) Star Wars: The Black Series (Pack: Captain Cardinal ) ( backup link ) " The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol " — Star Wars Encyclopedia " C-3PO " — Star Wars Encyclopedia " Before the dark times… " — Star Wars - The Official Magazine 101 Star Wars : Card Trader (Card: Tallie Lintra - 2021 Base - Series 2 ) 10 Helpful Droids | Star Wars: List It! on the official Star Wars Kids YouTube channel (content now obsolete; backup link ) Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga – The Official Collector's Edition Star Wars Day-at-a-Time Calendar 2022 (Picture only) Star Wars: The Black Series (Pack: First Order Stormtrooper Electronic Helmet ) ( backup link ) Star Wars: The Secrets of the Sith Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy Art Prints (Pack: The Duel: Kylo Ren ) ( backup link ) " Pilots of the Rebel Alliance " — Star Wars Encyclopedia " Crime and Punishment " — Star Wars Insider 209 Ships of the Galaxy: The Halcyon Starcruiser on StarWars.com ( article ) ( backup link ) SWCA 2022: 7 Things We Learned from the Lucasfilm Publishing Behind the Page Panel on StarWars.com ( backup link ) Go Beyond The Spires in Virtual Reality: Making of ILMxLab's Tales From The Galaxy's Edge SWCA 2022 on the official Star Wars YouTube channel ( backup link ) " A Certain Point of View " — Star Wars Insider 213 NYCC 2022: Rise of the Red Blade Inquisitor Novel Revealed, and More Highlights from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel on StarWars.com ( backup link ) " Return of the Jedi : The End of the Beginning " — Star Wars Insider 217 Star Wars 100 Objects Star Wars: Timelines " A Certain Point of View " — Star Wars Insider 219 5-L in the Databank ( backup link ) A-wing Fighter in the Databank ( backup link ) Admiral Ackbar in the Databank ( backup link ) (Indirect mention only) Admiral Griss in the Databank ( backup link ) Aeos Prime in the Databank ( backup link ) Aeosian Queen in the Databank ( backup link ) Aeosians in the Databank ( backup link ) Agent Tierny in the Databank ( backup link ) Ajan Kloss Resistance Base in the Databank ( backup link ) Alazmec in the Databank ( backup link ) Amilyn Holdo in the Databank ( backup link ) AT-M6 Walker in the Databank ( backup link ) autovalet droid in the Databank ( backup link ) Ax Tagrin in the Databank ( backup link ) Battering Ram Cannon in the Databank ( backup link ) Batuu in the Databank ( backup link ) Bazine Netal in the Databank ( backup link ) BB-8 in the Databank ( backup link ) BB-9E in the Databank ( backup link ) Bestoon Legacy in the Databank ( backup link ) Blue Squadron in the Databank ( backup link ) Boolio in the Databank ( backup link ) Caluan Ematt in the Databank ( backup link ) Captain Canady in the Databank ( backup link ) Captain Doza's Office in the Databank ( backup link ) Captain Phasma in the Databank ( backup link ) Captain Phasma's Blaster Rifle in the Databank ( backup link ) Chancellor Villecham in the Databank ( backup link ) Chief Petty Officer Unamo in the Databank ( backup link ) Cobalt Squadron in the Databank ( backup link ) Colonel Datoo in the Databank ( backup link ) Commander D'Acy in the Databank ( backup link ) Commander Pyre in the Databank ( backup link ) Company 77 in the Databank ( backup link ) Crimson Squadron in the Databank ( backup link ) CS-515 in the Databank ( backup link ) D'Qar in the Databank ( backup link ) Dassal system in the Databank ( backup link ) DJ in the Databank ( backup link ) Eila in the Databank ( backup link ) Elite Praetorian Guard in the Databank ( backup link ) Finalizer in the Databank ( backup link ) Finn in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order AT-AT Walker in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order AT-HH Walker in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order AT-ST Walker in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order data-medallion in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order Dreadnought in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order Flametroopers in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order Interrogator Droid in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order jet troopers in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order Light Shuttle in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order Medical Droid in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order Mining Operation in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order probe droid in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order Riot Control Stormtroopers in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order Sentry Droid in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order Snowspeeder in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order Snowtroopers in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order Special Forces TIE Fighter in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order Star Destroyer in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order stormtrooper executioner in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order Stormtroopers in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order Supreme Council in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order TIE Fighter in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order TIE Fighter Pilots in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order Transporter in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order treadspeeder in the Databank ( backup link ) First Order treadspeeder drivers in the Databank ( backup link ) Flight Simulator Squadron in the Databank ( backup link ) FN-2199 in the Databank ( backup link ) GA-97 in the Databank ( backup link ) General Engell in the Databank ( backup link ) General Hux in the Databank ( backup link ) General Parnadee in the Databank ( backup link ) General Pryde in the Databank ( backup link ) General Quinn in the Databank ( backup link ) Glem in the Databank ( backup link ) GLIE-44 blaster pistol in the Databank ( backup link ) Goss Toowers in the Databank ( backup link ) Grummgar in the Databank ( backup link ) Hamato Xiono in the Databank ( backup link ) Han Solo in the Databank ( backup link ) Hosnian Prime in the Databank ( backup link ) Hype Fazon in the Databank ( backup link ) Ilco Munica in the Databank ( backup link ) Jannah in the Databank ( backup link ) Jarek Yeager in the Databank ( backup link ) Jaycris Tubbs in the Databank ( backup link ) Kazuda "Kaz" Xiono in the Databank ( backup link ) Kijimi in the Databank ( backup link ) Kijimi City in the Databank ( backup link ) Korr Sella in the Databank ( backup link ) Krakavora in the Databank ( backup link ) (Indirect mention only) Kylo Ren's Command Shuttle in the Databank ( backup link ) Lieutenant Mitaka in the Databank ( backup link ) Lt. Gauge in the Databank ( backup link ) Major Brance in the Databank ( backup link ) MB-13 in the Databank ( backup link ) Neeku Vozo in the Databank ( backup link ) Nix Jerd in the Databank ( backup link ) Norath in the Databank ( backup link ) Oga Garra in the Databank ( backup link ) Oma Tres in the Databank ( backup link ) (Indirect mention only) Orbital Bombardment Cannon in the Databank ( backup link ) Petty Officer Thanisson in the Databank ( backup link ) Phase Connector in the Databank ( backup link ) Poe Dameron in the Databank ( backup link ) Poe Dameron's X-wing fighter in the Databank ( backup link ) Princess Leia Organa in the Databank ( backup link ) Quadjumper in the Databank ( backup link ) Rebellion Outpost on Aeos in the Databank ( backup link ) Resistance bomber in the Databank ( backup link ) Resistance Pilots in the Databank ( backup link ) Resistance Troopers in the Databank ( backup link ) Resistance X-Wing in the Databank ( backup link ) Resistance Y-wing starfighter in the Databank ( backup link ) Rey's Blaster in the Databank ( backup link ) Rolt in the Databank ( backup link ) Rose Tico in the Databank ( backup link ) sea skiff in the Databank ( backup link ) Sith Eternal in the Databank ( backup link ) Sith jet troopers in the Databank ( backup link ) Sith troopers in the Databank ( backup link ) Snap Wexley in the Databank ( backup link ) Snoke's Throne Room in the Databank ( backup link ) Starkiller Base in the Databank ( backup link ) Stomeroni Starck in the Databank ( backup link ) Strono "Cookie" Tuggs in the Databank ( backup link ) Supreme Leader Kylo Ren in the Databank ( backup link ) Supreme Leader Snoke in the Databank ( backup link ) Tara Rashin in the Databank ( backup link ) Tech stormtrooper in the Databank ( backup link ) Teroj Kee in the Databank ( backup link ) The First Order in the Databank ( backup link ) The Force in the Databank ( backup link ) The Fulminatrix in the Databank ( backup link ) The New Republic in the Databank ( backup link ) The Resistance in the Databank ( backup link ) The Vigil in the Databank ( backup link ) TIE silencer in the Databank ( backup link ) Torra Doza in the Databank ( backup link ) Transport ticketing droid in the Databank ( backup link ) Tuanul in the Databank ( backup link ) UA-TT Walker in the Databank ( backup link ) Venisa Doza in the Databank ( backup link ) Vi Moradi in the Databank ( backup link ) Z6 Riot Control Baton in the Databank ( backup link ) Zorii Bliss in the Databank ( backup link ) Notes and references [ ] ↑ 1.00 1.01 1.02 1.03 1.04 1.05 1.06 1.07 1.08 1.09 1.10 1.11 1.12 1.13 1.14 1.15 1.16 1.17 1.18 1.19 1.20 1.21 1.22 1.23 1.24 1.25 1.26 1.27 1.28 1.29 Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.9 Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy ↑ 3.0 3.1 Star Wars: The Force Awakens : J.J. Abrams explores 'Who IS Luke Skywalker …?' by Anthony Breznican on Entertainment Weekly ( August 12 , 2015 ) (archived from the original on August 14 , 2015 ) ↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition ↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 5.4 5.5 5.6 5.7 5.8 Phasma ↑ 6.00 6.01 6.02 6.03 6.04 6.05 6.06 6.07 6.08 6.09 6.10 6.11 6.12 6.13 6.14 6.15 6.16 6.17 6.18 6.19 6.20 6.21 6.22 6.23 6.24 6.25 6.26 6.27 6.28 6.29 6.30 Star Wars : Episode VII The Force Awakens ↑ 7.00 7.01 7.02 7.03 7.04 7.05 7.06 7.07 7.08 7.09 7.10 7.11 7.12 7.13 7.14 7.15 7.16 7.17 7.18 7.19 7.20 7.21 Star Wars : Episode IX The Rise of Skywalker ↑ 8.00 8.01 8.02 8.03 8.04 8.05 8.06 8.07 8.08 8.09 8.10 8.11 8.12 8.13 8.14 8.15 8.16 8.17 8.18 8.19 8.20 8.21 8.22 8.23 8.24 8.25 8.26 8.27 8.28 8.29 8.30 8.31 8.32 8.33 8.34 8.35 8.36 8.37 Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary ↑ 9.00 9.01 9.02 9.03 9.04 9.05 9.06 9.07 9.08 9.09 9.10 9.11 9.12 9.13 9.14 The Star Wars Book ↑ 10.00 10.01 10.02 10.03 10.04 10.05 10.06 10.07 10.08 10.09 10.10 10.11 10.12 10.13 10.14 10.15 10.16 10.17 10.18 10.19 10.20 10.21 10.22 Star Wars : Episode VIII The Last Jedi ↑ 11.0 11.1 11.2 Star Wars Resistance — " The Children from Tehar " ↑ 12.00 12.01 12.02 12.03 12.04 12.05 12.06 12.07 12.08 12.09 12.10 12.11 12.12 12.13 12.14 12.15 12.16 12.17 12.18 12.19 12.20 12.21 12.22 12.23 Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary ↑ 13.0 13.1 13.2 13.3 Star Wars Battlefront II ↑ 14.0 14.1 14.2 14.3 14.4 Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy ↑ 15.0 15.1 15.2 15.3 15.4 Star Wars: Timelines ↑ 16.0 16.1 16.2 Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary states that the First Order was publicly formed five years before the Starkiller Incident , which Star Wars: Galactic Atlas dates to 34 ABY.
 Therefore, the First Order's official formation must have happened in 29 ABY.
↑ 17.0 17.1 17.2 Poe Dameron 2 ↑ 18.0 18.1 18.2 18.3 Star Wars: The Secrets of the Sith ↑ 19.0 19.1 Star Wars : Episode I The Phantom Menace ↑ Star Wars : Episode II Attack of the Clones ↑ 21.0 21.1 Tarkin ↑ Star Wars : Episode III Revenge of the Sith ↑ Star Wars Rebels — " Secret Cargo " ↑ 24.0 24.1 Star Wars : Episode IV A New Hope ↑ Star Wars: Galactic Atlas ↑ Star Wars : Episode VI Return of the Jedi ↑ 27.0 27.1 27.2 27.3 27.4 27.5 27.6 27.7 27.8 Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition ↑ 28.00 28.01 28.02 28.03 28.04 28.05 28.06 28.07 28.08 28.09 28.10 Aftermath: Empire's End ↑ 29.0 29.1 Lost Stars ↑ Thrawn ↑ Jakku in the Databank ( backup link ) ↑ 32.0 32.1 32.2 The Mandalorian — " Chapter 23: The Spies " ↑ Aftermath: Life Debt ↑ 34.0 34.1 34.2 The First Order in the Databank ( backup link ) ↑ " Launchpad " — Star Wars Insider 211 ↑ 36.0 36.1 36.2 36.3 The Last Jedi: Bomber Command ↑ According to SWCC 2019: 9 Things We Learned from The Mandalorian Panel on StarWars.com ( backup link ) , The Mandalorian is set five years after Star Wars : Episode VI Return of the Jedi.
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas dates the events of Return of the Jedi to 4 ABY , meaning that The Mandalorian is set in 9 ABY.
↑ " Return of the Jedi : The End of the Beginning " — Star Wars Insider 217 ↑ " A Certain Point of View " — Star Wars Insider 220 ↑ " Snoke & Mirrors: Emperor Palpatine's Top 5 Proxies " — Star Wars Insider 198 ↑ Darth Sidious Biography Gallery in the Databank ( backup link ) ↑ 42.0 42.1 42.2 Shadow of the Sith ↑ Age of Resistance - General Hux 1 ↑ 44.0 44.1 Poe Dameron 10 ↑ 45.0 45.1 45.2 45.3 45.4 45.5 45.6 Bloodline ↑ 46.00 46.01 46.02 46.03 46.04 46.05 46.06 46.07 46.08 46.09 46.10 46.11 46.12 46.13 46.14 Before the Awakening ↑ 47.0 47.1 The Last Jedi: Cobalt Squadron ↑ Age of Resistance - Rose Tico 1 ↑ 49.0 49.1 Star Wars Resistance — " The New Trooper " ↑ Star Wars Resistance — " The Disappeared " ↑ 51.0 51.1 51.2 51.3 Poe Dameron 11 ↑ Poe Dameron 1 ↑ Poe Dameron 3 ↑ Poe Dameron 4 ↑ 55.0 55.1 Poe Dameron 5 ↑ Poe Dameron 6 ↑ 57.0 57.1 Poe Dameron 7 ↑ Poe Dameron 8 ↑ Poe Dameron 9 ↑ Poe Dameron 12 ↑ 61.0 61.1 61.2 Poe Dameron 13 ↑ Poe Dameron 17 ↑ Poe Dameron 18 ↑ Poe Dameron 19 ↑ Poe Dameron 23 ↑ Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections ↑ Captain Phasma 4 ↑ Poe Dameron 29 ↑ 69.0 69.1 Star Wars Resistance — " The Escape " ↑ Star Wars Resistance — " No Escape: Part 2 " ↑ Star Wars Resistance — " A Quick Salvage Run " ↑ 72.0 72.1 Star Wars Resistance — " The Engineer " ↑ Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel ↑ 74.0 74.1 Galaxy's Edge 5 ↑ 75.0 75.1 75.2 Resistance Reborn ↑ Allegiance 1 ↑ First Order Raiders in the Databank ( backup link ) ↑ Star Wars Resistance — " The Relic Raiders " ↑ 79.0 79.1 79.2 Allegiance 2 ↑ Allegiance 4 ↑ Star Wars : Galaxy's Edge — Millennium Falcon: Smuggler's Run ↑ Star Wars : Galaxy's Edge ↑ Choose Your Destiny: A Finn & Poe Adventure ↑ Spark of the Resistance ↑ 85.0 85.1 Star Wars Resistance — " Rebuilding the Resistance " ↑ Star Wars : Episode IV A New Hope ↑ Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary dates the events of Star Wars : Episode IX The Rise of Skywalker as taking place one year after the Starkiller Incident , which Star Wars: Galactic Atlas dates to 34 ABY.
 Therefore, the events of Star Wars : Episode IX The Rise of Skywalker must take place in 35 ABY.
↑ 88.0 88.1 88.2 " A Certain Point of View " — Star Wars Insider 213 ↑ Darth Sidious Biography Gallery in the Databank ( backup link ) (Image 28 caption) ↑ Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel ↑ 91.0 91.1 91.2 Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Incredible Cross-Sections ↑ Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel ↑ Starkiller Base in the Databank ( backup link ) ↑ Star Wars: Complete Locations ↑ Star Wars Resistance — " Descent " ↑ Executioner troopers in the Databank ( backup link ) ↑ Poe Dameron 14 ↑ 98.0 98.1 Star Wars: The Force Awakens novelization ↑ " Tales of Villainy: Follow and Lead " — Star Wars Adventures (2020) 2 ↑ Age of Resistance - Kylo Ren 1 ↑ Cantonica in the Databank ( backup link ) ↑ Star Wars Resistance — " Station Theta Black " ↑ Age of Resistance - Captain Phasma 1 ↑ Join the Resistance: Escape from Vodran ↑ Poe Dameron 24 ↑ 106.0 106.1 Kylo Ren Is Not A Sith by Dyer, James on Empire Magazine ( August 25 , 2015 ) (archived from the original on October 18 , 2015 ) ↑ Star Wars ( @starwars ) on Twitter : "The First Order assembles. #TheForceAwakens" ( screenshot ) ↑ 'Star Wars' Costume Designer Breaks Down 'The Force Awakens' by Smith, C. Molly on Entertainment Weekly ( December 22 , 2015 ) (archived from the original on October 27 , 2017 ) български čeština Deutsch Ελληνικά español français 한국어 italiano ქართული Nederlands 日本語 polski português română Türkçe українська 中文 Categories : Canon articles Articles to be expanded Pages needing citation Cleanup Articles in need of updating Articles with multiple issues Short story collections listed in Canon Appearances First Order Galactic Empire successor states Interplanetary governments Outer Rim Territories governments Unknown Regions governments Add category Sci-fi Fan Feed More Wookieepedia 1 Hello there 2 Baylan Skoll 3 Ahsoka Tano Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab
