old id = 825
Winding the largest magnets on site
2015
https://www.iter.org/construction/pf

Jobs 7 Tenders 78 Faqs Visits Contact us ITER Directory Subscribe Donate.
gsc-placeholder-input{outline: none; background: url("http://www.google.com/cse/static/en/google_custom_search_watermark.gif") 0% 50% no-repeat rgb(255, 255, 255);padding: 1px 6px;border: 1px solid #DDD;width: 99%; font-size:13px;height: 30px;margin: 0px 5px;width: 100%!important;} .gsc-search-button{display:none} .gsc-control-cse{background-color:transparent; border-color:transparent} Subscribe options Select your newsletters: ITER Newsline Keep in touch with ITER through our main news feed, sent weekly.
ITER Magazine - French only Learn more about the ITER Project by subscribing to this quarterly online magazine that is geared toward the general public.
ITER Open Doors Day - Notifications Stay informed about the ITER Open Doors sessions and be among the first to subscribe to the next event.
Please enter your email address: @ Your email address will only be used for the purpose of sending you the ITER Organization publication(s) that you have requested.
ITER Organization will not transfer your email address or other personal data to any other party or use it for commercial purposes.
If you change your mind, you can easily unsubscribe by clicking the unsubscribe option at the bottom of an email you've received from ITER Organization.
For more information, see our Privacy policy.
') < 0){ $(this).remove(); } }) $("div.sub").each(function(){ $(this).appendTo("#menu-content"); if ($(this).find('li.active').length > 0){ var activeSubMenu = $(this).index() + 1; $("li.menu-cat[data-id='" + activeSubMenu + "']").addClass('active'); } else if( $(document).find('div#menu h2 a.active').length > 0 ) { } }) var activeIndex = $('li.menu-cat.active').index(); if(activeIndex >= 0){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == activeIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } //hide menu on overlay click $('div.black-overlay').click(function(){ $('li.menu-cat.selected').trigger( "click" ); }); function menuBehaviour() { var isiPhone = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("iphone"); var isiPad = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipad"); var isiPod = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipod"); var isAndroid = /android/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isBlackberry = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("BlackBerry"); var isOpera = /Opera/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isIE = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("IEMobile"); //for Tablet if(isiPhone > -1 || isiPad > -1 || isiPod > -1 || isAndroid || isBlackberry > -1 || isOpera || isIE > 1){ $('li.menu-cat span.glyphicon').click(function(event) { //remove href link event.preventDefault(); currentMenu = $(this).parent().parent().parent(); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); }else{ $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseenter', function() { currentMenu = $(this); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); } } menuBehaviour(); $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseleave', function() { clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); currentMenu = null; }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); }); function closeMenu() { MenuToggle( $('.menu-cat.selected') ); clearTimeout( timeoutBlackOverlay ); $("div.black-overlay").hide(); clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); } function MenuToggle( obj ) { currentMenu = obj; var id = $(obj).data('id'); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).find('div.column-select').css({'opacity':'0'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).removeClass('last'); if (id != $(this).data('id')){ $(this).removeClass('selected'); $(this).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); $("div.sub.selected").addClass('last'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).hide().removeClass('selected'); } }) if($(obj).hasClass('active')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('active'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } if ($(obj).hasClass('selected')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 0}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle().removeClass('selected'); $("div.sub").removeClass('last'); $("div.black-overlay").fadeTo(200, 0); setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").hide(); }, 200 ); $(obj).removeClass('selected'); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); if (!$(obj).hasClass('active')){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').removeAttr('style'); } }); } } else { //check last selected height var lastSize = $('div.sub.last').height(); // if last has height if (lastSize > 0 ){ var currentHeight = $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(lastSize) $("div.submenu-content-" + id).show().animate({height : currentHeight + 30 + 'px'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } //else we toggle the menu else{ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } timeoutBlackOverlay = setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").show().fadeTo(200, 0.6); }, 200 ); $(obj).addClass('selected'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-down').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-up'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('selected'); } } About About An introduction to the project's goals, history, organization, location...
In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History IAEA ITER Newsletter The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Faqs Project Milestones Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine One million components, ten million parts — find out more about the ITER Tokamak and its systems.
What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science Bringing a star to Earth? Explore the science of ITER.
What is fusion? Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Iter goals Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Follow the construction of the world's largest tokamak in southern France.
Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Specialized tooling Tokamak Assembly Metrology Plant assembly Commissioning News & Media News & Media The latest photos, videos and publications from the ITER Organization.
All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events ITER Podcast Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives Top Tenders ITER Directory Donate About About In a few lines In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History History IAEA ITER Newsletter Faqs Project Milestones The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Legal resources Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science What is fusion? Making it work Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Iter goals Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Projects underway Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Tokamak Assembly Plant assembly Specialized tooling Metrology Commissioning News & Media News & Media All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives ITER Podcast Toggle navigation Toggle navigation Francais English Jobs Tenders Faqs Contact us directory Subscribe Donate Intranet Donate...
Construction Construction Archives PF Coils Facility Last photos before activity Professional photographer Christian Luenig took a series of interior shots of the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility in May 2015. Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst (Follow all manufacturing news at https://www.iter.org/construction/SiteFabricationPFcoils 30 May 2015 Download Christian Luenig series Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 30 May 2015 Download Christian Luenig series Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 30 May 2015 Download Christian Luenig series Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 30 May 2015 Download Christian Luenig series Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 30 May 2015 Download Christian Luenig series Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 30 May 2015 Download Christian Luenig series Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 30 May 2015 Download Christian Luenig series Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 30 May 2015 Download Christian Luenig series Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 30 May 2015 Download Christian Luenig series Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 30 May 2015 Download Delivery from China Following a first convoy in June 2013, a second delivery of qualification conductors from China reached the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility on 17 January. This material will be used for cabling and coil manufacturing process qualification.
13 January 2014 Download The doors open Conductor for the commissioning of the Winding Facility enters through the north door. It will be stored until the manufacturing line for the poloidal field coils is in place.
13 January 2014 Download Future factory 49 metres wide, 257 metres long: the Winding Facility will house the different assembly stations for ITER's large poloidal field coils. Photo: F4E 11 January 2013 Download Heavy lift equipment for large components The 40-tonne circular spreader beam can travel the length of the building to move the poloidal field conductor assemblies from the winding station, on to impregnation with epoxy resin, and finally stacking and joining.
20 December 2012 Download December 2012 The sharp light of December illuminates the Poloidal Field Coils building and casts long shadows ...
06 December 2012 Download Seen from 40 metres The winding facility for the poloidal field coils is the first completed building on the ITER platform. Opposite the facility is a 3,500 m² area under development for the contractors that will be responsible for the next major project: the civil engineering works on the Tokamak Complex. © Sylvain Couturier 03 December 2012 Download Site in September 2012 Looking across the platform from the completed winding facility at the Assembly Hall worksite (mid-platform) and the new ITER Headquarters (background).
13 September 2012 Download Doors are closed for now The building that will house the on-site assembly line for five of ITER's six poloidal field coils stands ready on the southeast edge of the platform for activity to begin at the end of the year.
21 June 2012 Download Strange exhaust unit This Darth Vader-like structure sitting on the roof of the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Building is one of several exhaust fans that will suck air out of the vast building.
21 June 2012 Download Before the equipment moves in In June, a group of visitors from Sweden is treated to a tour of the PF Winding Facility.
08 June 2012 Download An on-site facility for gigantic components From the north end of the facility, the gigantic coils won't have far to go to enter the Assembly Hall, which will be built on the near side of the Tokamak Seismic Pit. Photo: F4E 31 May 2012 Download Water storage ... in case Water for the Winding Facility's firefighting system is stored in this cylindrical tank. Photo: F4E 31 May 2012 Download The only manufacturing building This 257-metre-long building will be equipped with three manufacturing stations. The sequential operations necessary for completing one poloidal field coil will take at least 24 months. Photo: F4E 31 May 2012 Download Ready for the delivery trucks The area around the PF Winding Facility is now paved. In 2013, trucks carrying the first conductor spools from China, Europe and Russia will enter this end of the building to deliver their loads. Photo: F4E 31 May 2012 Download Not for long The Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility will not be the only building on the platform for long: the contract for the three-building Tokamak Complex (Diagnostic, Tritium and Tokamak buildings) will be signed later this year. Photo: Engage-AP 20 April 2012 Download All is quiet The completed Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility awaits busier days. Later this year, the selected coil manufacturer will move in to equip the building. Photo: F4E 15 March 2012 Download It's done Snow hasn't hampered the works on the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility: the building is now completed and awaits handover from the building contractors (the French consortium Spie Batignolles, Omega Concept and Setec) to the European Domestic Agency for ITER, Fusion for Energy.
01 February 2012 Download Exterior work completed Roadwork has now been completed around the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility.
12 January 2012 Download Operations to begin this year The completed interior of the Winding Facility. In this 257-metre-long building work will begin in late 2012 on the winding and assembly of five poloidal field coils (PF2, 3, 4, 5 and 6). Photo: F4E 21 December 2011 Download Bring out the heavyweights Heavy winches and cables support the weight of the 40-ton spreader beam, which will be used during the assembly stage of coil manufacture. Photo: F4E 21 December 2011 Download Drive on in! Trucks delivering the raw material for coil manufacture—niobium-titanium conductor—will enter the facility through this door and unload in a dust-free environment. Photo: F4E 12 December 2011 Download Offices ready Office space for 100 people is located along the south-eastern wall of the building. Photo: F4E 12 December 2011 Download Last completed edge Exterior stairwell, paved roads ... the last touches to the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility are carried out before handover on 14 February. Photo: F4E 12 December 2011 Download One year of progress in a picture The three projects that transformed the ITER platform in 2011: the PF Coils Winding Facility (foreground); the Tokamak Pit excavation and foundation work (centre); and—in the distance—the ITER Headquarters.
08 December 2011 Download Cladding operations end The bright colours of the Winding Facility disappear as the last layer of cladding is put into place.
23 November 2011 Download Nearly 200 tonnes The spreader beam (40 tonnes) is supported by a trolley (48 tonnes) that runs between two steel beams (43 and 48 tonnes). The entire assembly weighs close to 200 tonnes. Photo: F4E 18 November 2011 Download 257 m x 49 m x 18 m Cladding operations are completed on the north end of the Winding Facility. The 257 m x 49 m x 18 metre facility required 9,500 square metres of steel cladding and 11,000 square metres of roofing. Photo: F4E 18 November 2011 Download Across the platform ...
The Winding Facility is situated on the far end of the 400 metre-wide ITER platform. In seven years, what is now empty space will be entirely filled in with the infrastructure and installations in support of the ITER Tokamak.
15 November 2011 Download Metal-frame building The weight of the Winding Facility's metal structure is 1,000 tonnes. Each of the rooftop heating and ventilation units weighs a further 9 tonnes.
15 November 2011 Download Final stages With one month to go before work on the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility ends, workers carry out the last cladding operations on the north face of the building. In the foreground, a cylindrical tank that will store water for the Facility's independent fire fighting system.
15 November 2011 Download A spreader beam to carry the completed coils This 25 metre-wide spreader beam has 24 brackets that will bear the weight of the poloidal field coils as smoothly and evenly as possible, and avoid tilt. Photo: F4E 15 November 2011 Download Slowly but surely In November 2011, static load and dynamic movement tests were carried out on the 40-tonne spreader beam, which must be capable of transporting loads as smoothly and evenly as possible, with a maximum authorized tilt of 10 mm. Photo: F4E 10 November 2011 Download Seen from the ITER Visitor Centre Four hundred metres across the platform, the first completed building. Work will begin here in 2012 to wind ITER's largest magnets: the poloidal field coils. Photo: F4E 26 October 2011 Download This is the "delivery" end of the Winding Facility Spools of niobium-titanium conductor will be delivered here at the south end of the facility. Winding operations will happen in a sequential manner until the finished coils leave the opposite end of the building on a self-propelled transporter. Photo: F4E 26 October 2011 Download Rainbow in October An October rainbow briefly illuminates the ITER platform and the near-completed Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility.
25 October 2011 Download The "heavyweight" travelling crane for finished components The first beam (43 t) is joined by the second (48 t) and between the two a hoisting trolley is installed. Photo: F4E 06 October 2011 Download The central trolley The central trolley (48 tonnes) will support the weight of the 40-tonne spreader beam and allow it to transfer loads across the width of the Winding Facility. Photo: F4E 06 October 2011 Download Installation takes two days Following delivery from the factory in San-Sebastian, Spain, the second travelling crane of the Poloidal Field Facility is installed in two days. Photo: F4E 06 October 2011 Download Completed interior Interior painting is finished; in 2012 this building will be fitted out with equipment for the winding of ITER's poloidal field magnets. Photo: F4E 06 October 2011 Download Here's the second crane The first 40-metre steel beam—part of the Winding Facility's second travelling crane—is lifted onto the waiting rails. Photo: ENGAGE.AP 04 October 2011 Download Assembling the second crane Components for the second bridge crane—two 40-tonne beams and a hoisting trolley (seen on the floor)—are delivered to the ITER site in October. Photo: F4E 04 October 2011 Download Work on the exterior areas Finishing touches are made to the south end of the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility and work begins to pave roads. Photo: F4E 27 September 2011 Download A fresh coat of paint Floor surface treatment is completed on one-half of the Winding Facility. The travelling crane, in yellow, will have the capacity to travel the entire length of the building. Photo: F4E 27 September 2011 Download Test power and HVAC in October The Winding Facility is just a few months from completion. Scheduled for October: power, HVAC (heating and air conditioning) and fluid tests; the delivery of the second bridge crane, and painting inside the building. Photo: Altivue/ITER Organization 14 September 2011 Download Completed in December The north face of the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility will remain open until the final bridge crane is delivered in October and installed directly on the rails. Photo: Altivue/ITER Organization 14 September 2011 Download Floor preparation Workers "shotblast" the floor to prepare for painting operations in September 2011. Photo: F4E 12 September 2011 Download On schedule Work to finish the Winding Facility progresses as scheduled; delivery is on time for December 2011. Photo: F4E 01 September 2011 Download Once finished ...
Integrated into the west face of the Winding Facility: two large exit doors for the completed coils. Photo: F4E 01 September 2011 Download The inside of the winding facility The Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility is 257 metres long, 49 metres long and 18 metres high. Photo: F4E 01 September 2011 Download One year later The Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility in August 2011. Photo: F4E 11 August 2011 Download And now, the windows Windows are installed along the top of the Winding Facility in August 2011. Photo: F4E 11 August 2011 Download Waiting for the second bridge crane to arrive The far end of the Winding Facility will be closed up after the delivery of the second bridge crane in October. Photo: F4E 11 August 2011 Download Five months from finish Work advances rapidly on the 257-metre-long Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility in July 2011: the cladding is nearly finished, the three-floor office building is in place ... Photo: F4E 28 July 2011 Download Cladding activities on the south-east side Corrugated metal on the inside, plus two layers of glass wool insulation and two layers of metal sheeting sealed with tape—these five layers make up the walls of the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility. Photo: F4E 28 July 2011 Download Offices are in Three storeys of office space, in white, have been installed along the Winding Facility's east face. Photo: F4E 28 July 2011 Download Tower cranes in the distance From the roof of the Winding Facility, the tower cranes working around the Seismic Isolation Pit (blue) and the ITER Headquarters (yellow) are visible in the distance. Photo: F4E 20 June 2011 Download Successive layering Successive layers of cladding can be distinguished in this photo taken in June 2011. Photo: F4E 20 June 2011 Download Final colours On the south face of the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility, the last layer of cladding has been set into place. Photo: F4E 20 June 2011 Download The Winding Facility in June 2011 Even the Technical and Production Buildings on the eastern side of the Winding Facility are covered with metal cladding. Photo: F4E 20 June 2011 Download Placed overhead on the south end of the facility Straddling the workspace across its width (approximately 40 metres) and installed at opposite ends of the Winding Facility, two overhead cranes will travel along metal rails that span the building's entire length, lifting loads up to 25 and 100 tonnes resepctively. Photo: AIF 07 June 2011 Download Heavy lifting The heavy lifting required for poloidal field coil assembly will be done by the overhead bridge cranes. Beams for the first crane arrive on site in June 2011. Photo: AIF 07 June 2011 Download Special delivery for the Winding Facility This 38.3 metre-long steel beam is one of two beams delivered in June 2011 for the Winding Facility's 25-tonne travelling crane. Photo: AIF 07 June 2011 Download Approximately 6 months from completion Looking out from the first structure to go up on the ITER platform. Photo: AIF 27 May 2011 Download Three storeys of office space A small pre-fabricated structure will installed along the back side of the building for offices and administrative services. Photo: AIF 27 May 2011 Download Taking on its final appearance With the exception of the right edge, where yellow insulation and the first layers of cladding are still apparent, the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility takes on its final colours. Photo: AIF 27 May 2011 Download As the clouds roil ...
On a stormy day, the colourful layers of cladding of the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility.
28 April 2011 Download Building #1 of 39 The first of 39 buildings on the ITER platform: the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility.
21 April 2011 Download Cladding on the south face Successive layers of cladding are applied to the exterior of the Winding Facility in April 2011. These include an inner layer of sheeting containing small holes to absorb work area noise; two layers of glass wool insulation; and finally two layers of metal sheeting sealed with tape against dust. The final colours will be grey and burnished red.
21 April 2011 Download Seen from the sky The poloidal field coil system consists of six horizontal coils placed outside the toroidal magnet structure. Due to their size, the actual winding of five of the six poloidal field coils will take place here, in this dedicated, 257-metre long facility on the ITER site in Cadarache. (The smallest of the coils will be manufactured offsite and delivered finished.) Photo: F4E 17 April 2011 Download The Winding Facility in April Seen from above: the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility. Photo: Altivue/Spie Batignolles 17 April 2011 Download Successive production zones The Winding Facility will accommodate docking stations for the unloading and temporary placement of the superconducting coils, production zones corresponding to the successive steps of the winding and assembly process, and offices. Photo: Altivue/Spie Batignolles 17 April 2011 Download Where is the exit? A smooth concrete platform is built outside of the exit doors of the Poloidal Field Coil Winding Facility for the safe transfer of the completed coils. Photo: Altivue/Spie Batignolles 17 April 2011 Download Four layers of rooftop insulation The roof of the Winding Facility is covered with four layers of insulation: steel, rock wool, elastomer, and tar. Photo: Altivue/Spie Batignolles 17 April 2011 Download What role for the poloidal field magnets? The poloidal field magnets pinch the plasma away from the walls and contribute in this way to maintaining the plasma's shape and stability. Photo: F4E 13 April 2011 Download 12,000 square metres A surface area of 12,000 square metres dedicated to the winding and assembly operations of ITER's poloidal field coils. Photo: F4E 13 April 2011 Download Concrete works end in April All concrete for the Winding Facility is poured by April 2011. Photo: Altivue/Spie Batignolles 13 April 2011 Download Cladding work begins Work begins on the metal cladding of the Winding Facility. Five layers of metal cladding and insulation will protect the work space inside—where cleanliness is a priority—from the infiltration of dust. Photo: F4E 13 April 2011 Download Construction in 18 months Some 80 workers are involved in the construction of the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility, which will be completed in December 2011. Photo: F4E 13 April 2011 Download Preparing for the travelling cranes Embedded plates will be installed along the horizontal beams on either side of the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility for the rails of the travelling cranes. Photo: F4E 17 March 2011 Download Looking north Looking north past the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility on the eastern edge of the ITER platform. Photo: F4E 10 March 2011 Download Floor slab nearly completed Designed to carry loads of up to 42 tonnes per square metre, the floor slab for the Winding Facility is completed in March 2011. To ensure such high resistance, the subsoil was treated with a special hydraulic binder before reinforcement was laid and concrete poured. Photo: F4E 10 March 2011 Download 257 metres long The 257-metre Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility stretches off into the distance ... Photo: F4E 10 March 2011 Download Technical areas for production The Technical (electricity) and Production (cooling water, chiller, boiler) Buildings go up alongside the main Winding Facility. Photo: F4E 10 March 2011 Download Nineteen metres overhead Working on the steel roofing trusses of the Winding Facility.
02 March 2011 Download The last floor segment Ready to cast the last of the concrete floor in the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility in March 2011.
02 March 2011 Download Giant exit doors Five of ITER's six poloidal field coils are too large to be transported and will be wound on site in the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility. The finished coils, measuring up to 24 metres in diameter, will leave the building through one of two 30-metre exit doors (visible at left in the photo). Photo: F4E 24 February 2011 Download State-of-the-works in February 2011 Looking into the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility in February 2011. Photo: F4E 24 February 2011 Download Roofing elements delivered On the far end of the Winding Facility, cranes have delivered roofing materials ...to the roof. Photo: F4E 24 February 2011 Download Underground networks Trenches for the underground networks of the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility are dug in the foreground; in the background—the current office buildings of the ITER Organization. Photo: F4E 24 February 2011 Download 950 tonnes in the roof Thirty-four steel trusses spanning the 40-metre width of the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility: 950 tonnes in all. Photo: F4E 03 February 2011 Download A building for winding and assembling In this vast building, the operations for the winding and assembly of the poloidal field magnets will be carried out in successive order. The finished coils will exit one of the large openings in the west wall, for transfer to the Assembly Hall of the Tokamak Building. Photo: F4E 03 February 2011 Download Roof trusses progress quickly Construction of the metal framework has been underway for several weeks. It consists of a strong triangular shaped lattice with a 40-metre-long base. Photo: F4E 03 February 2011 Download Part of Europe's commitment The Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility is financed by Europe, who will carry out the winding operations for the poloidal field coils in this building from superconductor delivered by China, Europe and Russia. Europe is responsible for the construction of all of the buildings on the ITER platform as part of its commitment to the ITER project. Photo: F4E 03 February 2011 Download The Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility in January 2011 The Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility in January 2011, after five months of construction. Photo: F4E 14 January 2011 Download Thirty-four steel trusses Each steel roofing truss is 4 metres high and 40 metres wide. Thirty-four trusses in all will support the roof of the 257-metre-long Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility. Photo: F4E 14 January 2011 Download And now, on to the roof The metal trusses for the roof of the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility weigh eight tons each. Due to their weight, the metal parts are first assembled on the building's reinforced concrete slab, then lifted by crane to a height of 19 metres. Photo: F4E 14 January 2011 Download Posts and beams in place The concrete pillars and beams of the Winding Facility are up and nearly all of the 12,000 m² floor slab has been set into place. The wide openings visible on the west face of the building are the exit doors for the completed coils; each door is 30 metres wide. Photo: Altivue/AIF 01 January 2011 Download Working from the ground up In January 2011, concrete pouring for the floor slab continues on one end of the building, while the first metal roof truss is set into place on the other. Photo: F4E 01 January 2011 Download Nineteen metres high Each of the Winding Facility's 62 concrete columns is 19 metres high. Photo: F4E 09 December 2010 Download November fog Concrete pouring activities continue despite the thick fog that covers the ITER platform. Photo: F4E 01 December 2010 Download Finishing touches Workers smooth the wet concrete that has been cast for the floor of the Winding Facility. Photo: F4E 01 December 2010 Download Every eight metres Day by day, the 62 reinforced concrete columns are set into place, spaced every eight metres. Photo: F4E 15 November 2010 Download Solidly anchored The columns of the Winding Facility are solidly anchored four metres deep in the ground. These columns will support the structure of the building and bear the weight of two travelling bridge cranes that will have a lifting capacity, respectfully, of 25 and 100 tonnes. Photo: F4E 01 November 2010 Download The first building on the ITER platform Work begins on the first building on the ITER platform in August 2010: the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility. The French consortium Spie Batignolles, Omega Concept and Setec was chosen by the European Domestic Agency F4E to design and build the facility. Photo: Altivue/AIF 01 September 2010 Download What operations for the Winding Facility? Later 2012, the winding and assembly activities for ITER's five largest poloidal field coils will begin in this 257-metre, on-site facility. Image credit: ITER Organization Download The largest components The poloidal field coils completely encircle the ITER vacuum vessel and toroidal field magnet system. These giant components are—for five of them, at least—too large to travel after manufacture. Image credit: ITER Organization Download Click for full screen 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 ' + currentmenu.text() + ' Construction Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Winding the largest magnets on site Winding the largest magnets on site The first completed building on the ITER platform was the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility. European Domestic Agency contractors will manufacture four of ITER's giant poloidal field coils in this building.
Construction period : August 2010 - December 2011 Surface area: 12,000m² Dimensions: 257 metres long, 49 metres wide, 18 metres tall Floor slab: 40 cm thick, designed to withstand 42 tonnes/m² Total steel cladding: 12,000 m² Total roofing: 11,000 m² Lifting capacity of first bridge crane: 25 tonnes. Capacity of second bridge crane: 50 tonnes under the spreader beam, or 100 tonnes.
Capacity of gantry crane: 400 tonnes Beginning of qualification activities: 2016 Beginning of winding activities: April 2017 EU awards engineering contract for poloidal field coils Space age feeling in the PF Coils building FOR THE PUBLIC Jobs About ITER FAQs Photos Visits Education Donate/Sponsor FOR THE PRESS All News Welcome Facts and Figures ITER Milestones Press Releases Fusion Glossary FOR SCIENTISTS ITPA Fusion Links Conferences How to Publish ITER Technical Reports ITER International School FOR INDUSTRY Procurement Intellectual Property Foreign Workers in France Business Events INTRANET Intranet Sitemap Terms of use Privacy Policy © 2023, ITER Organization ITER Assembly Live Event - 28 JULY The event will be live-streamed, in three parts (all times listed are French local times): 10:00 a.m. — Tour of the ITER worksite and large components on site 11:00 a.m. — Ceremony, including statements by world leaders 12:30 a.m. (or following the ceremony) — Press conference
