old id = 1653
Psychedelic drugs: neurobiology and potential for treatment of psychiatric disorders | Nature Reviews Neuroscience
2020
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41583-020-0367-2

Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript.
Advertisement View all journals Search Log in Explore content About the journal Publish with us Sign up for alerts RSS feed nature nature reviews neuroscience review articles article Download PDF Review Article Published: 14 September 2020 Psychedelic drugs: neurobiology and potential for treatment of psychiatric disorders Franz X. Vollenweider ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0001-9053-6164 1 & Katrin H. Preller ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0003-0413-7672 1 Nature Reviews Neuroscience volume 21 , pages 611–624 ( 2020 ) Cite this article 27k Accesses 168 Citations 469 Altmetric Metrics details Subjects Consciousness Neural circuits Neuroscience Therapeutics Abstract Renewed interest in the use of psychedelics in the treatment of psychiatric disorders warrants a better understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms underlying the effects of these substances. After a hiatus of about 50 years, state-of-the art studies have recently begun to close important knowledge gaps by elucidating the mechanisms of action of psychedelics with regard to their effects on receptor subsystems, systems-level brain activity and connectivity, and cognitive and emotional processing. In addition, functional studies have shown that changes in self-experience, emotional processing and social cognition may contribute to the potential therapeutic effects of psychedelics. These discoveries provide a scientific road map for the investigation and application of psychedelic substances in psychiatry.
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF Introduction During the 1950s and 1960s, classic psychedelics (also known as serotonergic hallucinogens) such as lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) and phosphoryloxy- N , N -dimethyltryptamine (psilocybin) were extensively investigated in psycholytic (low dose) and psychedelic (low to high dose) substance-assisted psychotherapy , resulting in more than 1,000 scientific papers and reports that included findings from about 40,000 subjects 1.
 Although these early, largely explorative studies used various psychotherapeutic techniques and had serious methodological flaws by contemporary standards, four systematic reviews of these early clinical studies reported impressive improvement rates in patients with various forms of depression and neuroses 2 , 3 , 4 , anxiety disorders 2 , 4 , personality disorders 2 , 4 , sexual dysfunctions 2 , 4 and alcohol dependence 2 , 4 , 5.
During the counterculture movement in the United States in the mid-1960s, the use of psychotropic drugs became popularized. This led LSD and related drugs to be placed in Schedule I (Controlled Substances Act, 1970) in the United States and in an equivalent category in most other countries. Thus, human research with psychedelics became severely restricted, leaving many questions unexplored 6.
 However, with the development of modern neuroimaging techniques in the 1990s, renewed interest in the investigation of psychedelic substances has emerged 7.
 Current behavioural and neuroimaging data show that psychedelics induce their psychological effects (Box 1 ) primarily via 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) type 2A (5-HT 2A ) receptor activation and modulate neural circuits involved in mood and affective disorders. Additional findings show that psychedelics enhance glutamate-driven neuroplasticity in animals and may provide a novel mechanism for the lasting symptom improvements observed in recent clinical trials in patients with psychiatric disorders.
In the present article, we review the advances that have taken place in recent years. We focus on new discoveries about the neurobiology and neuropharmacology of psychedelic substances and discuss potential mechanisms through which they may exert therapeutic effects in the light of modern neuroscience concepts. Discrepancies between research results and knowledge gaps are highlighted, and potential new directions are discussed. We conclude the Review by summarizing the implications of these findings for understanding cognitive processes in health and disease, the discovery of potential trans-diagnostic treatment mechanisms and the development of novel therapeutics.
Box 1 Psychometrical assessment of altered states of consciousness Quantifying altered states of consciousness was problematic in the early years of psychedelic research. However, over recent years, several psychometric instruments have been developed for assessing various aspects of consciousness. The 5-Dimensional Altered States of Consciousness Questionnaire is one of the most widely used and validated rating scales to measure the subjective response to psychedelics 170 , 171 , 172.
 This questionnaire assesses five core dimensions of altered states of consciousness that can be further described by 11 order scores 171.
 The five core dimensions are as follows: Oceanic Boundlessness: referring to positively experienced loosening or loss of self/ego boundaries that is associated with changes in the sense of time and emotions ranging from heightened mood to sublime happiness and feelings of oneness with the environment. This dimension resembles the so-called mystical-type experience also reported in religious exaltation.
Visionary Restructuralization: referring to perceptual alterations such as illusions and hallucinations, synaesthesia, changed meaning of percepts, increased imagination and facilitated memory recollection.
Dread of Ego Dissolution: referring to negatively experienced loss of self/ego boundaries associated with anxiety over the loss of control over thinking and body, and thought disturbances that may result in delusional thinking and/or panic. This response type occurs rarely at moderate to medium doses of a psychedelic in a controlled clinical setting 111 , but can occur at higher doses (psilocybin >25 mg, lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) >200 µg) 144 , 173.
Acoustic Alterations: hypersensitivity to sound or noise and auditory hallucinations.
Altered Vigilance: changes in the level of alertness.
The neurobiology of psychedelics Receptor activation and signalling The classic psychedelics comprise three main classes of chemicals. The first class are plant-derived indoleamines, including N , N -dimethyltryptamine (DMT), 5-methoxy-DMT (5-MeO-DMT), psilocybin and 4-hydroxy-DMT (psilocin, the active metabolite of psilocybin). The second class are phenylalkylamines, including mescaline (derived from the peyote cactus) and synthetic ‘amphetamines’ such as 2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine (DOI) and 2,5-dimethoxy-4-bromoamphetamine (DOB). The third group of compounds are semi-synthetic ergolines, such as LSD 8.
 The phenylalkylamines are selective agonists of 5-HT 2 receptors, including 5-HT 2A , 5-HT 2B and 5-HT 2C receptors 9.
 The indoleamines and ergolines act as partial agonists upon 5-HT 1 , 5-HT 2 , 5-HT 6 and 5-HT 7 receptors 8.
 LSD and other ergolines also act upon D1 and D2 dopamine receptors and adrenergic receptors 8.
Compelling evidence indicates that the activation of 5-HT 2A receptors located in cortical and subcortical structures is a unifying mechanism through which psychedelics mediate their various behavioural and psychological effects in animals 10 , including humans 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 (Fig.
1 ). Specifically, pharmacological studies have shown that the ‘head twitch response’ in rodents, a behavioural proxy for the effects of hallucinogens on humans 9 , 10 , depends on 5-HT 2A but not on 5-HT 2C or 5-HT 2B receptor stimulation 9 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 19.
 Consistent with these animal studies, the administration of the 5-HT 2A receptor antagonist ketanserin abolishes virtually all of the subjective effects of psilocybin, LSD and DMT in humans 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 , 20 , 21.
 Moreover, the psychedelic effects of psilocybin in humans have been shown to correlate with 5-HT 2A receptor occupancy measured via positron emission tomography in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and other cortical regions 22 , 23.
 However, it is important to note that some studies also suggest that 5-HT 1A receptor activation contributes to the visual 24 and attention-disrupting 25 effects of psilocybin in humans.
The known effects of psychedelic drugs on the neurons comprising the central brain networks responsible for bottom-up sensory input via the thalamus to the cortex and top-down cortico-striato-thalamic, cortico-thalamic and/or cortico-cortical control of information processing. The schematic is based on data mostly obtained from studies of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) and 2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine (DOI) in animals, as well as some studies of the actions of LSD and psilocybin in humans. LSD increases extracellular glutamate levels in the prefrontal cortex via stimulation of postsynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) type 2A (5-HT 2A ) receptors on deep layer 5 pyramidal (L5p) neurons 39 , 163 (stage 1) and on the L6p neurons (stage 2) projecting to L5p neurons as well as via activation of presynaptic 5-HT 2A receptors (stage 3) on specific and non-specific thalamocortical afferents 41 , 43 , 61 , 164 , 165 , 166.
 Psychedelics such as LSD can also stimulate 5-HT 1A receptors located on the hillock of L5p or L6p neurons (stage 4) and on cortical GABAergic interneurons (stage 5), resulting in both inhibition and disinhibition of prefrontal pyramidal cell activity 34 , 39 , 167.
 In addition, LSD and DOI are potent partial agonists at cortical (stage 6) and presumably also subcortical (striatal or palladial) (stage 7) 5-HT 2A receptors in GABAergic interneurons 168.
 Despite these partially inhibitory mechanisms, the LSD or DOI-induced increase in glutamate release produces a marked net excitatory effect on L5p neurons 34 , 39 , 164 , 169 and promotes synaptic plasticity via AMPA and NMDA receptor-dependent mechanisms 41 , 43 , 61.
 L5p neurons influence both cortical and thalamic processing and play a central role in coupling cortico-cortical (stage 8) and thalamo-cortical (stage 9) loops of information streams with each other 51 , providing a mechanism through which it is thought the state and content of consciousness may be coupled 42.
 It has therefore been suggested that psychedelics affect this extended thalamo-cortical broadcasting system, and thus consciousness as a whole, by simultaneously producing sensory ‘flooding’ due to reduced thalamic gating of interoceptive and enteroceptive inputs and by altering the meaning of percepts due to disrupted cortical–cortical interactions 170 , 171.
 In this model, thalamic gating is thought to be under the control of glutamatergic cortico-striatal and cortico-thalamic pathways projecting to the thalamus in addition to being under the modulatory influence of serotonergic projections from the raphe to several components of the cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical loops 51.
 mGluR, metabotropic glutamate receptor; NSN, non-specific thalamic nuclei; SN, specific thalamic nuclei.
Full size image It has been demonstrated that hallucinogenic and non-hallucinogenic 5-HT 2A receptor agonists, such as LSD and lisuride, respectively, activate different intracellular signalling pathways in cortical pyramidal neurons 26.
 Although both LSD and lisuride activate signalling via G q/11 subunits, only LSD additionally increased the expression of early growth response protein 1 (EGR1) and EGR2 by activating G i/o subunits and the protein tyrosine kinase SRC 27.
 Further investigation of this functional selectivity may inform the development of novel, possibly more specific, compounds with therapeutic properties and could help to resolve long-standing questions about whether non-hallucinogenic 5-HT 2A agonists can also exert antidepressant or neuroplastic effects in humans 7.
In addition to its effects on serotonin signalling, psilocybin has been found to increase striatal dopamine concentrations in humans, with these increases correlating with euphoria and the emergence of depersonalization 28.
 Although psilocybin does not act directly on dopamine receptors and may increase striatal dopamine concentration via 5-HT 1A receptor activation 29 , LSD does show high intrinsic activity at dopamine D2 receptors 8.
 In animal studies, LSD’s activation of dopamine receptors has been linked to its behavioural effects 30 , but the relevance of dopaminergic stimulation for psychedelic effects in humans is less clear 31.
 Studies specifically blocking dopaminergic receptors after LSD administration, which would help to resolve this issue, are currently lacking.
Regulation of neuronal activity In humans, 5-HT 2A receptors are highly expressed in the apical dendrites of layer 5 pyramidal (L5p) neurons in the cortex and are particularly enriched in the PFC 32 , 33 , 34.
 A smaller proportion are located presynaptically on thalamocortical afferents projecting to the neocortex 34.
 In addition, inhibitory GABAergic interneurons in the cortex and subcortical structures also express 5-HT 2A receptors 34.
 In vitro electrophysiological recordings have shown that DOI or LSD increases the frequency and amplitude of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic potentials and excitatory postsynaptic currents in L5p neurons in the rat medial PFC and other cortical regions by activating 5-HT 2A receptors 35 , 36.
 In vivo, DOI produced a striking net-excitatory effect (a 481% increase in the mean firing rate (spikes/s)) on most pyramidal neurons (38%) examined in the rat PFC, although a lower proportion of L5p neurons (27%) were also inhibited via activation of GABAergic interneurons 37.
 In another study, a lower dose of DOI evoked a marked activation of neuronal populations in the rat orbitofrontal cortex and anterior cingulate cortex, whereas higher doses tended to inhibit these regions 38 , 39.
 Thus, it appears that psychedelics may exert different modulatory effects across cortical regions, depending on the dose, the specific drug used and — presumably — the density of 5-HT 2A receptors in different neuronal populations.
The increase of L5p neuron activity in the PFC upon treatment with LSD or DOI was shown to be mediated by an increase of glutamate release and a subsequent activation of postsynaptic AMPA receptors 35 , 39 , 40 , 41.
 It is widely believed that the increase in extracellular glutamate is due to recurrent network activity triggered by an activation of postsynaptic 5-HT 2A receptors located in the deep L5p and L6p neurons that project to L5p neurons 27 , 39 , 40 (Fig.
1 ). However, prefrontal L5p neurons receive excitatory glutamatergic input not only from higher and lower cortical areas but also from specific and non-specific thalamic projections, and send output back to both the cortex and thalamus 35 , 42 (Fig.
1 ). One recent study indicates that activation of presynaptic 5-HT 2A receptors located on these thalamocortical afferents also contributes to the psychedelic-induced modulation of glutamatergic transmission in the PFC 35.
 In support of this idea, it has been shown that activation of presynaptic 5-HT 2A receptors located in thalamocortical synapses by DOI increases NMDA receptor-mediated transmission 43.
 Interestingly, the concomitant activation of the apical compartment of L5p neurons (which receives input from higher cortical areas and non-specific thalamic nuclei) and of the basal compartment (which receives input from lower cortical areas, such as the visual cortex) markedly increased the burst firing of L5p neurons 44 , 45 and correlated positively with the animal’s stimulus detection behaviour 42.
 Thus, it has been proposed that L5p neurons have the unique ability to couple bottom-up cortico-thalamic and top-down cortico-cortical loops of informational streams with each other 42 , 45.
Within the network outlined above, the PFC is known to be involved in the control of high-level cognitive and emotional processes, and in enabling a sense of self 12 , 46 , 47 , 48 , 49.
 Disruption of the functional integrity between or hyperactivity within components of this network has been associated with the dissolution of self-boundaries and alterations of cognitive and emotional processing in psychedelic states 50 , 51 (Box 1 ) and has also been linked to the pathophysiology of psychotic disorders.
Neuroplastic effects In addition to its acute effects, 5-HT 2A receptor activation has been shown to drive neuroplastic adaptions that have been proposed to underlie the persisting symptom improvements observed in psychiatric disorders 52 , 53 , 54.
 The finding that LSD and DOI increase levels of glutamate 8 , 55 , 56 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) 57 in the rat cortex has led to the hypothesis that psychedelics promote neuroplasticity via glutamate-driven increased AMPA receptor activation 7.
 AMPA receptor activation has been shown to increase the release of BDNF 58 , which in turn is essential for neuronal remodelling associated with learning and memory in both animals 59 and humans 60.
In fact, several recent studies showed that psychedelics induce both structural and functional changes in cortical neurons in mice in vitro and in vivo 52 , 53 , 54.
 These changes include increased synaptogenesis, which appears to be mediated through activation of 5-HT 2A receptor, tyrosine receptor kinase B (TRKB) and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signalling pathways 54.
 Two recent studies in mice also showed that stimulation of postsynaptic 5-HT 2A receptors by DOI gates synaptic plasticity via AMPA receptor-dependent long-term depression of L5p neuron transmission 61 whereas stimulation of presynaptic 5-HT 2A receptors located in thalamocortical synapses gates neuroplasticity and associative learning via NMDA receptor-dependent mechanisms 43.
 In animals, neuroplastic adaptions have also been associated with the ability of psychedelics to facilitate the extinction of fear memory 52 , 53.
The capacity of psychedelics to induce functional and structural neuroplasticity could lead to a shift in the approach to treatment of various psychiatric disorders. However, whether the neuroplastic effects of psychedelics observed in animal studies are replicable in humans and are responsible for the long-lasting symptom improvements seen in recent clinical studies requires further investigation.
Altered activity and connectivity As discussed above, 5-HT 2A receptor activation can have profound neuromodulatory effects. These effects can manifest as changes in measures of connectivity assessed with neuroimaging techniques such as functional MRI (fMRI). There are numerous different neuroimaging approaches for the measurement of connectivity. Functional connectivity approaches assess the correlation between the signals observed in different brain areas, whereas effective connectivity approaches such as dynamic causal modelling provide models of neuronal coupling (that is, the effect of one neural system on another). Alternatively, the neuromodulatory effects of psychedelics can be expressed in terms of changes in fast neuronal dynamics and assessed with electrophysiological measures.
Recent neuroimaging and electrophysiological studies of the human brain in its resting state have revealed psychedelic-induced systems-level changes that have given rise to various hypotheses regarding the neural underpinnings of psychedelic states. The empirical evidence from these studies described below suggests that changes in thalamic gating, between-network and within-network integration and temporal dynamics are induced by psychedelic compounds. Further studies investigating the neurobiological correlates of specific psychedelic-induced emotional and cognitive alterations are discussed in later sections.
Evidence for altered thalamic gating Within cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical (CSTC) feedback loops, the thalamus is crucial in the gating of the flow of internal and external sensory and cognitive information to the cortex 51 , 62.
 Thalamic gating is under the control of glutamatergic cortico-striatal and cortico-thalamic pathways that project to specific and non-specific nuclei of the thalamus and is also under the modulatory influence of serotonergic and dopaminergic neurons in the raphe and ventral tegmentum, which project to several components of the CSTC loops 63.
 Hence, the CSTC model proposes that psychedelics disrupt thalamic gating by stimulating 5-HT 2A receptors located in several parts of the CSTC loop, resulting in a feedforward information overload of the cortex and subsequent disruption of cortico-cortical integration of distributed neuronal activity 51 , 62 (Fig.
1 ). It is suggested that this may eventually cause the increased sensory perception, cognitive disturbances and ego dissolution that occur in psychedelic states 51 , 62.
 This hypothesis is also compatible with the suggested increase of sensory bottom-up information flow and relaxed priors formulated in the REBUS 64 model described below.
The CSTC model is supported by evidence that infusion of DOI into the ventral pallidum in rodents 65 and systemic administration of psilocybin, LSD and DMT in humans disrupts sensorimotor gating and is associated with alterations in cognitive functioning in a 5-HT 2A -dependent manner 66 , 67 , 68 , 69.
 Two neuroimaging studies have provided further support for this model by demonstrating increased thalamic functional connectivity after the administration of LSD, particularly between the thalamus and the sensory and sensory somato-motor cortical regions 31 , 70.
 In another study, dynamic causal modelling was used to assess effective connectivity between major hubs of the CSTC model 71.
 Increased excitatory connectivity from the thalamus to the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), consistent with the predicted increase in thalamo-cortical information flow, was demonstrated under LSD. In line with another prediction of the model, decreased control of the ventral striatum over the thalamus was detected. However, LSD also decreased the effective connectivity from the thalamus to the temporal cortex. These results together suggest that whereas LSD indeed increases ‘bottom-up’ thalamo-cortical information flow to certain cortical regions, it reduces information flow to others. Hence, psychedelics such as LSD, at least at the moderate doses tested, appear not to induce undifferentiated cortical flooding as originally hypothesized 71.
Consistent with the idea that psychedelics disrupt thalamic gating, two earlier human positron emission tomography studies reported that psilocybin markedly increased cerebral glucose metabolism in PFC regions (a phenomenon termed ‘hyperfrontality’) and, to a lesser extent, in adjacent cortical regions 72 , 73.
 After normalizing to the global metabolic rate of glucose, a pattern emerged of hypermetabolism in prefrontal and tempomedial areas and hypometabolism in subcortical and occipital brain regions 74.
 Similar hyperfrontality effects were shown after oral administration of DMT or mescaline in studies that measured cerebral blood flow (CBF) via single-photon emission tomography 75 , 76.
 More recently, two studies investigated CBF after the administration of psilocybin and LSD using arterial spin labelling 77 , 78 , 79 , revealing increases in CBF in the visual cortex under LSD 79 and brain-wide decreases in CBF after psilocybin administration 78.
 The latter result was corroborated in a third study that used two different doses of psilocybin 77.
 However, after additionally controlling for unspecific global effects (see Box 2 ), a divergent pattern with increases in CBF in frontal regions and decreases in subcortical and occipital regions was evident 77.
 These results support the hypothesis that reduced thalamic gating leads to overactivity of prefrontal brain regions.
It is important to note that alterations in thalamo-cortical connectivity may not be a specific signature of the psychedelic state, as changes in the functional organization of these loops have also been reported in psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia 80.
 However, they may represent an important component of the response to these compounds that, together with changes in the functional architecture of the cortex (discussed below), gives rise to psychedelic experiences. Whether the characteristic features of psychedelic states (such as ego dissolution) are due to a disruption of more specific thalamo-cortical projections and cortico-cortical interactions needs to be further investigated. Animal studies were able to show selective modulation of thalamic gating by attention during wakefulness 81.
 The use of such animal models may therefore represent a promising scientific approach to shed further light on the role of thalamic gating in psychedelic states.
Box 2 Psychedelic-induced global effects on neuroimaging data Across different imaging modalities, such as positron emission tomography, arterial spin labelling (ASL) and functional MRI, psychedelics have repeatedly been shown to induce unspecific global effects on resting-state data 15 , 31 , 72 , 77 , 86 , 87 , 89.
 The global signal in functional MRI data is thought to represent a complex mixture of non-neural artefacts, such as head motion, cardiac and respiratory changes, changes in blood pressure and vasomotion 174 , and additionally includes fluctuations in neuronal activity 175.
 One approach to control for these unspecific effects is the use of global signal regression (GSR), in which the mean is computed across grey matter voxels and regressed from each voxel’s time course. However, the utilization of GSR is still a matter of debate with advantages and disadvantages 175.
 Not removing the global signal and related artefacts can induce spuriously high correlations across brain regions 175 , 176.
 On the other hand, GSR may also remove interesting neuronal effects and has been reported to induce anti-correlations in modelling studies 175.
 A detailed description of the advantages and disadvantages of GSR is presented in ref.
175.
 The current consensus is that neuroimaging analyses should be repeated with and without GSR, to provide complementary insights into changes in the brain’s functional architecture 175.
Although GSR has been shown to have negligible to small effects on the results obtained with certain analytic approaches, such as dynamic causal modelling 177 , two studies have reported that the use or non-use of GSR has an impact on functional global brain connectivity measures obtained after the administration of psychedelics 31 , 87.
 Global brain connectivity has been shown to produce replicable results in two different samples in which GSR was used 31 , 87 , whereas the pattern of results across studies without GSR has been inconsistent to date 31 , 70 , 87 , 90.
 To further improve the consistency of results, future studies should therefore pay attention to this preprocessing step and report results with and without GSR.
With regard to ASL data, global signal fluctuations have similarly been associated with temporal magnetic resonance signal variations, thermal noise or physiological variations 178.
 These signals can vary across different scan sessions or subjects and are therefore insufficiently removed with regular filtering procedures. Using repeated ASL scans, it has been shown that controlling for the global signal resulted in better cerebral blood flow quantifications with a higher temporal signal to noise ratio, better test–retest stability and better cerebral blood flow map quality 178.
 Controlling for the global signal is a routine procedure in ASL studies, and for most pharmacological ASL studies it is common practice to report analyses both with and without the global covariate 179 , 180.
 Psilocybin has been shown to induce global changes in the ASL signal. Complementary to those results, additional insights have been reported after these changes have been controlled for 77.
 This provides further support for the suggestion that future studies assessing the effect of psychedelics on cerebral blood flow continue to report results with and without controlling for global signal changes.
Evidence for alterations in network integration In recent years, various neuroimaging studies have investigated the impact of psychedelics on the network dynamics of the human brain 31 , 78 , 79 , 82 , 83 , 84 , 85 , 86.
 Most studies used functional connectivity approaches to investigate changes in between-network and within-network connectivity.
Using functional global brain connectivity, a data-driven approach that measures the connectivity between each voxel and the rest of the brain, a concurrent increase in the integration of sensory and somato-motor brain networks and disintegration of networks of associative brain regions was reported after LSD 31 and psilocybin 87 administration. The pattern of brain regions affected by these functional connectivity changes correlated with those expressing the HTR2A gene in maps derived from the Allen Human Brain Atlas DNA microarrays 31 (which are highly consistent with positron emission tomography imaging data for the 5-HT 2A receptor 88 ), pinpointing the crucial role of this receptor also in systems-level changes induced by psychedelics. These results are in line with a recent study showing decreased expression (that is, a decreased probability of the occurrence of a recurrent phase-locking pattern in the blood oxygen level-dependent signal over time) of the frontoparietal control network, which overlaps with associative brain regions mentioned above, together with an increased occurrence of a globally coherent brain state under the influence of psilocybin 89.
 Thus, it is conceivable that increased processing of sensory information that is not counterbalanced by associative network integrity may underlie or contribute to the multifaceted phenomenology of psychedelic states. Figure 2 presents an integration of these results with the reported changes in thalamic gating discussed above. However, it is important to note that Fig.
2 is not a comprehensive summary of all neuroimaging results obtained under the influence of psychedelics but, rather, represents a working hypothesis of the mechanisms that potentially underlie the psychedelic state and that should be tested in future studies. Two additional studies have investigated global brain connectivity after the administration of LSD and reported evidence for increased thalamic functional connectivity. However, with the exception of this finding, these studies — which, unlike the studies mentioned above, did not use global signal regression (GSR) 70 , 90 — did not show overlapping results 91.
 For a detailed discussion of psychedelic-induced global effects on neuroimaging data and the advantages and disadvantages of GSR, see Box 2.
One model for the mechanism of action of psychedelics suggests that they exert their effects via the cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical loops that control thalamic gating of internal and external sensory and cognitive information to the cortex 51.
 Consistent with this idea, it has been shown that these psychedelics disrupt pre-attentive sensorimotor gating in humans 66 , 67 , 68 , 69 , 84.
 Furthermore, evidence from some human neuroimaging studies shows that psychedelics increase functional connectivity between the thalamus and sensory cortical regions 31 , 70 and decrease thalamic functional connectivity with association areas 31.
 Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) has also been shown to increase effective connectivity from the thalamus to the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) and the ventral striatum 71.
 These findings support a reduction of thalamic filtering of interoceptive and exteroceptive information and increased information flow to particular areas of the cortex, and are also compatible with the hypothesis of sensory bottom-up overflow and relaxed priors as described in the REBUS model 64.
 At the same time, increased synchronization of sensory cortical regions 31 , 87 , 154 and decreased integration of association regions has repeatedly been reported 31 , 78 , 79 , 83 , 86 , 87 , 89 , 96.
 Therefore, as illustrated in the schematic, a reduction of thalamic filtering may lead to an increase in sensory processing that is not counterbalanced by integrative processing in association cortices. This dysbalance may be experienced as psychedelic symptoms 31 , 87 , 153.
 This figure is not a comprehensive summary of neuroimaging results obtained under the influence of psychedelics (see main text for more details) but, rather, represents a working hypothesis of potential mechanisms underlying the psychedelic state that needs to be tested in future studies.
Full size image In addition to these changes, several studies have demonstrated alterations in functional connectivity between nodes of different intrinsic brain networks after the administration of psychedelics; however, the results reported have often been inconsistent 91.
 Resting-state fMRI studies in regular waking states have identified two orthogonal (anticorrelated) networks: the default mode network (DMN) and the task positive network 92.
 This anti-correlation is suggested to support the transition between internally directed thoughts and the external environment 92.
 Although psilocybin decreased DMN–task positive network orthogonality 84 , this result was not replicated after administration of the DMT-containing drink ayahuasca, regardless of preprocessing with or without GSR 86.
 More widespread changes in between-network connectivity have also been reported after psilocybin 85 and LSD 79 , 83 administration; however, again, results have not yet revealed a congruent pattern 91.
 The lack of consistency may be because most of the results are based on relatively small sample sizes (<20 participants), a potential limitation calling for larger studies and comparable methodological approaches 93 , 94 , 95.
The most consistent finding in all of the various studies that have investigated functional connectivity within the nodes of intrinsic brain networks has been reduced functional connectivity in or between structures of the DMN 31 , 78 , 79 , 83 , 86 , 96.
 However, similar decreases in functional connectivity between the nodes of the DMN have been reported after the administration of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors 97 and may therefore represent unspecific serotonergic effects 91.
 The specific contribution of decreased DMN integrity to psychedelic effects should therefore be investigated in future studies.
Evidence for altered entropy The neuromodulatory effects of 5-HT 2A receptors and their effects on synaptic efficacy can also be observed as changes in fast electrophysiological dynamics that result from specific alterations in neuronal excitability or postsynaptic gain in cortical microcircuits. Functionally, these changes can be expected to influence the precision of neuronal message transfer, especially in the context of predictive processing or hierarchical Bayesian formulations of perception 98.
 In line with this, increased entropy has been suggested to be a neural signature of psychedelics. This has been formulated as the “entropic brain hypothesis” 99 , 100 and has recently been integrated together with the “free-energy principle” to produce the “relaxed beliefs under psychedelics (REBUS) and the anarchic brain” model 64.
 In brief, this model states that psychedelics reduce the precision of high-level priors (expectations or beliefs about the world) and concurrently increase bottom-up information flow. This renders recurrent message transfer more sensitive to modulation by ascending afferents, thereby increasing the entropy and complexity of accompanying neuronal dynamics 64.
 Empirical evidence that psychedelics such as LSD, psilocybin and DMT (but also the dissociative drug ketamine) increase the Lempel–Ziv complexity (a measure of signal diversity that quantifies the number of distinct patterns present in the data and an approximation to entropy) of magnetoencephalography and electroencephalography signals has been reported 101 , 102.
 In an fMRI study, increased sample entropy (a measure indicating the complexity of a signal by representing the predictability of the signal over time) was also observed in sensory and some higher-order networks after the administration of LSD 103.
 Furthermore, an increased repertoire of different brain states (rapid changes in brain dynamics and functional connectivity) was reported after psilocybin and LSD administration in the same set of healthy individuals 104 , 105.
 Increased Shannon entropy, broadly defined as the amount of information in a variable, was also reported in seven participants after the ingestion of ayahuasca 106.
As noted above, the REBUS model hypothesizes that psychedelic-induced increased entropy reflects a relaxation of the precision weighting of priors, leading to decreased top-down and increased bottom-up information flow. Corroborating this model, reduced electrophysiological responses to the presentation of surprising stimuli have been found under the influence of LSD 107 , as well as reduced top-down and increased bottom-up connectivity between different brain areas such as the thalamus and the PCC as described above 71.
 However, other studies have not observed reductions in surprise responses 108 , 109.
 This model therefore needs further testing to establish its specificity and generalizability. Future research should consider leveraging the advantages of technologies allowing the co-registration of electroencephalography recordings and transcranial magnetic stimulation to gain further causal insight into psychedelic-induced changes in connectivity and complexity.
Functional alterations Numerous recent studies have investigated the impact of psychedelics on specific cognitive and emotional functions. Most studies were conducted while participants were engaged in specific tasks and under the acute influence of the substance. These studies have revealed psychedelic-induced alterations in emotional processing, self-processing and social processing that may have relevance for psychedelic-assisted therapy (summarized in Fig.
3 ) as well as perceptual changes and alterations in symbolic imagery.
Schematic shows changes in emotional processing, self-processing and social processing that have been measured acutely in controlled trials after the administration of psychedelics 11 , 12 , 20 , 120 , 138.
 These acute effects may contribute to the potential therapeutic effects of these substances.
Full size image Altered emotional processing During the 1950s and 1960s, psychedelics were used as adjuncts to psychotherapy to facilitate the release of emotion and ease emotionally loaded memory blocks 110.
 More recent studies in healthy volunteers as well as patients with different psychiatric disorders have confirmed that psilocybin and LSD increase both positive and negative mood, emotional excitation and sensitivity, and can lead to emotional breakthroughs (that is, the overcoming of challenging emotions or memories and thereby the experience of emotional release) in a supportive clinical setting 11 , 68 , 111 , 112.
 Furthermore, psilocybin has been shown to augment subjective and neural responses to positive autobiographical memory cues in healthy participants 113.
Investigating the processing of emotions, various studies have shown that psychedelics can reduce the response to negative emotional stimuli in a controlled research setting. For example, LSD and psilocybin dose-dependently decreased the recognition of negative facial expressions in healthy participants 114 , 115 , 116.
 In line with this, psilocybin reduced the subjective discrimination between fearful and neutral faces and the encoding of fearful faces 117.
 In another study, the reduced processing of fearful faces was associated with decreased activity within limbic brain areas, whereas there was a reduction of activity in response to happy faces within limbic and right temporo-occipital brain areas 118.
 Furthermore, psilocybin and LSD induced reduced neural responses to negative stimuli in the amygdala 119 , 120 , an effect that correlated with an increase in positive mood 120.
 Connectivity analyses showed that psilocybin reduced top-down directed connectivity from the amygdala to the primary visual cortex during threat processing 121 and decreased functional connectivity between the amygdala and the striatum during angry face discrimination 122.
 Additionally, changes in positive mood after a low dose (microdose) of LSD have been shown to correlate with increased resting-state functional connectivity between the amygdala and the frontal cortex 123.
 It is possible that a global reduction in concentration could influence the results of these studies testing the effects of psychedelics on specific cognitive or emotional tasks. That being said, all of the studies mentioned above controlled carefully for differences in performance and none of them revealed global impairments 114 , 115 , 119 , 120.
 We therefore believe it is unlikely that the reduced processing of negative stimuli under the influence of psychedelics can be attributed to decreased attentional or cognitive capacities.
A negative cognitive and emotional bias is a core symptom of major depression disorder 46.
 Hence, the findings above make it conceivable that classic psychedelics enhance positive mood in individuals with major depression disorder by acting as a modulator of the major connectivity hubs of the amygdala, therefore acutely reducing the processing of negative emotions. This, in turn, may allow patients with depression to inspect emotionally loaded self-relevant thoughts and memories from a less judgemental and decentred stance 4.
An important, yet scarcely addressed, question is whether psychedelics produce a sustained beneficial effect on emotional processing. In healthy participants, reduced amygdala reactivity in response to emotional stimuli has been reported 1 week after psilocybin administration, but returned to baseline 1 month after administration 124.
 Similarly, negative affect was decreased 1 week after administration and returned to pre-administration levels after 1 month 124.
 In individuals with treatment-resistant depression, emotion recognition showed continued improvement 1 month after treatment with psilocybin 125.
 These results provide the first evidence that psychedelics may have a continued positive effect on emotion processing and mood that may normalize the negative bias observed in major depression. In contrast to these acute and sustained effects of psychedelics, one study reported increased amygdala reactivity in response to fearful faces in individuals with depression the morning after psilocybin administration 126.
 The same group showed a reduction in amygdala–PFC connectivity 127.
 One potential explanation for these findings is that acute, psilocybin-induced, facilitated processing of negative experiences may lead to increased reactivity and emotional processing post acutely. It is important to note that the increased amygdala reactivity in individuals with depression was measured prior to psychological integration work 126.
 This may indicate that a therapeutic integration of the experience is necessary to achieve long-term reductions in the processing of negative emotions. Thus, the long-term effects of psilocybin on amygdala reactivity, their clinical relevance and the impact of post-acute psychotherapeutic interventions need to be determined in future studies. Additionally, further studies are warranted to evaluate whether specific emotion processing tasks may be useful to predict clinical efficacy of psychedelics in patients with different psychiatric disorders.
Altered self-processing Psychedelics can have a profound impact on various aspects of the experienced sense of self 128.
 This is often described as a loosening of self-boundaries, oneness, unity or ego dissolution under the acute influence of the substance 111.
 Experimentally, several studies have aimed at capturing these phenomena. During a social interaction task in human volunteers, LSD was found to reduce the differentiation between self and others via decreased differential activation in the cortical midline structures 12 , which have repeatedly been shown to be involved in generating a model of the self 129.
 Additionally, in another study, the administration of LSD led to increased perception of self-relevance as well as of meaningfulness of external stimuli 11.
By correlating psychometrically assessed subjective alterations in self-experience with brain imaging data, recent studies have attempted to identify the neural correlates of ego dissolution. So far, different results have been obtained with different methods. LSD-induced alterations in self-processing were correlated with altered global brain connectivity in the somato-motor network 31 , as well as in the angular gyrus and the insula in a different study 90.
 In a separate study that used the same data set as ref.
90 , LSD-induced subjective ego dissolution correlated with decreased seed-based functional connectivity between the parahippocampus and retrosplenial cortex and within the DMN assessed with fMRI 79 and with decreased delta and alpha power assessed with magnetoencephalography 79 (potentially associated with increased excitability of brain networks 130 ). In another study, psilocybin-induced self-reported ego disintegration correlated with decreased alpha power in the PCC 96 and — in the same participants — with decreased functional connectivity between the medial temporal lobe and high-level cortical regions, a ‘disintegration’ of the salience network and reduced interhemispheric communication 131.
 These disparate findings suggest that a single neural correlate of ego dissolution may not exist. However, the various aspects of altered self-experience — in particular, pleasurable versus anxious ego dissolution — have not been clearly distinguished in current studies. A more distinct definition and operationalization of altered self-experiences is needed to be able to conclusively identify their specific neural correlates.
In addition to the advantages of gaining an integral understanding of the neural basis of the self, these studies are important because alterations in self-processing are considered to be central to the efficacy of psychedelic-assisted therapy 4 , 128 , 132.
 So far, positively experienced self-dissolution associated with feelings of oneness (often referred to as mystical-type experiences) has been shown to be positively correlated with treatment success in addiction, depression and anxiety in palliative care 133 , 134 , 135 , 136 and in major depression 137.
 It is also conceivable that ego dissolution and reduced self-focus lead to a ‘decentring’, that is, a state allowing a broader spectrum of thought patterns and emotions, which may be beneficial especially in individuals with depression who suffer from ruminative thinking. Furthermore, alterations in self-processing have been linked to changes in social cognition — in particular, increased empathy and reduced rejection sensitivity 12 , 20 , 138.
 Alterations in self-processing may therefore promote changes in social cognition that have been reported to be critical to therapeutic efficacy (see below).
Altered social processing LSD and psilocybin have been shown to acutely modulate social processing in healthy participants 12 , 20 , 114 , 138.
 This is of particular interest given the impact of impaired social cognition in psychiatric disorders and the insufficiency of currently available medication to treat these deficits 139 , 140.
 Most importantly for therapeutic application, both LSD and psilocybin increase emotional empathy (that is, the capacity to feel ‘with’ other people), although they have no effect on cognitive empathy (that is, the ability to take another person’s perspective and the understanding of another person’s mental state) 114 , 138.
 Furthermore, psilocybin has been shown to reduce the feeling of social exclusion and social rejection processing in the anterior cingulate cortex 20.
 These effects may reduce social withdrawal behaviour and improve the patient–therapist relationship during psychedelic-assisted treatment 4.
The long-term effects of psychedelics on social processing have currently scarcely been investigated. Self-reported increases in interpersonal closeness were described up to 14 months after one or two administrations of psilocybin 141 , 142 , 143 , 144.
 Self-reported increases in positive and/or altruistic social effects were also reported 4 and 12 months after the administration of psilocybin and LSD in healthy participants 145 , 146.
 Furthermore, self-reported increases in prosocial behaviour 4 months after psilocybin administration correlated with changes in medial PFC–PCC connectivity 2 days after psilocybin 146 , 147.
 Emotional empathy has also been reported to be increased the morning after a psilocybin retreat and to endure up to 7 days for negative emotions 148.
In clinical studies with psilocybin (Box 3 ), individuals with various psychiatric conditions identified social factors as contributing to their disease and reported improvements after psilocybin-assisted therapy. For example, participants in one study designed to promote smoking cessation reported psilocybin-induced feelings of love and of being reconnected with their environment and other people as important for quitting smoking 149.
 In addition, they reported increased engagement in prosocial and altruistic activities after psilocybin administration 149.
 This suggests that psilocybin-assisted therapy may reinstate social reward processing, helping people to overcome their addiction. In a study of individuals with depression, participants reported distressing feelings of being disconnected before psilocybin-assisted therapy 150.
 After psilocybin treatment, they felt reconnected with their social environment and identified this increased connection as one of the main changes induced by the treatment 150.
 Taken together, these findings suggest that the beneficial impact of psychedelics on social cognition and behaviour may be an important mechanism contributing to clinical efficacy.
Box 3 Psychedelics in the treatment of psychiatric disorders Since 2010, clinical research that examines the effects of psilocybin, lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) and the plant-derived ayahuasca beverage (containing the psychedelic N , N -dimethyltryptamine (DMT) and the monoamine oxidase inhibitor harmaline) in the treatment of mood disorders and addiction has resurged 181.
 Recent psychedelic-assisted therapy studies include three steps: a few intensive preparation sessions; one or two supervised drug sessions in which a medium or high dose of a psychedelic is administered in a supportive environment; and several post-drug integration sessions for the psychedelic experience. Based on the idea that psychedelics may facilitate the psychotherapeutic process, some clinicians combine this basic approach with evidence-based psychotherapy.
Two open-label trials using this approach showed that psilocybin, in conjunction with motivational enhancement therapy or cognitive behavioural therapy, reduced alcohol consumption in individuals suffering from addiction for up to 53 weeks and nicotine abuse for up to 6 months, outcomes that were linked to the intensity of the mystical-type experiences that the subjects reported 135 , 182.
 Two additional open-label studies showed that a single dose of ayahuasca in individuals with recurrent major depression produced significant reductions in depressive symptoms, with a rapid onset and effects lasting up to the 3-week end point 183 , 184.
 Neuroimaging revealed acute increases in cerebral blood flow in the left nucleus accumbens, right insula and left subgenual area, which might be relevant for the change in mood, after ayahuasca intake 184.
 In another open-label trial, individuals with treatment-resistant major depression received two doses of psilocybin at a weekly interval with psychological support 185.
 Significant improvements in self-rated depressive symptoms were observed up to 6 months, with a maximum at 5 weeks 186.
 The reduction of depressive symptoms at 5 weeks was predicted by high scores of acutely experienced pleasurable self-dissolution and by low scores for dread of ego dissolution 137 , supporting the hypothesis that the quality of the psychedelic experience is key for the positive long-term outcome 4.
 The improvement at week 5 also correlated with the sum score for feelings of unity, bliss and spirituality. One day after psilocybin treatment, neuroimaging revealed that decreased amygdala cerebral blood flow and decreased parahippocampal–medial prefrontal cortex functional connectivity, as well as increased prefrontal cortex–bilateral inferior lateral parietal cortex resting-state functional connectivity, correlated with the reduction in depressive symptoms 187.
 In contrast to previous studies reporting decreases in resting-state functional connectivity within the default mode network with psilocybin, LSD and DMT administration in healthy subjects 31 , 78 , 79 , 83 , 86 , 96 , psilocybin increased default mode network resting-state functional connectivity in the patients 1 day post treatment 187.
 This finding is somewhat surprising, given that increased resting-state functional connectivity within the default mode network has been repeatedly reported in depression, and associated with rumination 188.
 Thus, longitudinal placebo-controlled studies are warranted to further elucidate the temporal dynamics of these changes in functional connectivity and their relation to depressive symptoms.
Five double-blind, placebo-controlled studies have also been conducted to investigate the effects of psychedelics in the treatment of depressive symptoms and/or anxiety 134 , 136 , 189 , 190 , 191.
 Three of these studies used psilocybin and reported significant reductions in depression and anxiety in patients with advanced cancer 134 , 136 , 189.
 The symptom improvement was correlated with the extent of the acute mystical-type experience reported by the patients 134 , 136.
 Likewise, in another double-blind trial, two doses of LSD or placebo-like doses of LSD (20 µg) were given to patients with life-threatening diseases and anxiety. In combination with psychotherapy, this treatment was found to reduce state anxiety at 2-month follow up, enduring to the 12-month follow up 191 , 192.
 In another double-blind study, a single dose of ayahuasca was reported to reduce depressive symptoms in treatment-resistant major depressive disorder 190.
Altered sensory processing Perceptual changes are the most frequent and robust features of the psychedelic experience. Psychedelics, also called hallucinogens, have been claimed to produce a dream-like state characterized by alterations in visual processing, but have also been shown to impact auditory and tactile perception to a lesser degree 111.
 At moderate doses, alterations in visual percepts rarely represent true hallucinations but, rather, illusions or pseudo-hallucinations that can be distinguished from real perceptions. A psilocybin, LSD and DMT-induced decrease in alpha oscillations — in particular, over posterior parieto-occipital brain areas – suggests that psychedelics increase the excitability of the visual pathway 21 , 102 , 130 , 151 , 152.
 The amplification of internal-driven excitation may therefore underlie the visual alterations experienced in the absence of external input 153.
 This is also in line with resting-state neuroimaging results obtained after LSD administration showing that connectivity within the visual cortex reflects the intrinsic retinotopic architecture, suggesting that activity within the visual cortex becomes more dependent on its intrinsic organization 154.
 Furthermore, increased resting-state connectivity between the thalamus and the fusiform gyrus was shown to correlate with visual alterations under LSD administration 70.
 During mental imagery, the blood oxygen level-dependent signal amplitude in the primary visual cortex after ayahuasca intake was reported to be comparable to natural image viewing 155.
 In response to external stimuli, psilocybin increased the P1 component (the first positive component of an event-related potential observed around 100 ms after stimulus presentation and thought to reflect early visual information processing) in visual area V1 and concurrently decreased the visual N170 evoked potential (a negative event-related potential occurring 130–200 ms after visual stimulus presentation and thought to reflect altered global integration) in the lateral occipital complex 156.
 This suggests that a dysbalance between perception and integration may explain psilocybin-induced illusions and hallucinations 153 , and is in line with results obtained in resting-state connectivity studies described above (Fig.
2 ).
For other modalities, only slight perceptual changes have so far been recorded. A reduction in the N1 sensory evoked potential (the first negative component of an event-related potential observed around 150–200 ms after stimulus presentation) in an auditory paradigm was reported after psilocybin administration, suggesting reduced processing of the intensity of auditory stimuli 108.
 Alterations in tactile perception are often associated with changes in self-experience and body experience 111.
 Usually, alterations in these domains are experienced as synaesthesia , with mostly auditory stimuli being translated to the visual domain 157.
 Under the influence of LSD, music-evoked visual imagery has been related to increased effective connectivity from the parahippocampal cortex to the visual cortex, suggesting that an increase in top-down information on early sensory regions may contribute to psychedelic-induced changes in perception 158.
The therapeutic relevance of alterations in sensory processing is currently not well understood. However, the content of psychedelic-induced mental imagery is often based on autobiographic memories 14 and the activation of related emotions 14 , 113.
 Such subjective experiences of vivid imagery strongly resemble naturally occurring dreaming during the sleep–wake cycle and may have long-term beneficial effects on psychosocial functioning and well-being 14.
Implications for health and disease Pharmacological challenge studies with psychedelics not only elucidate their potential clinical effects but also offer the unique opportunity to investigate the role of the 5-HT receptor system in human perception, cognition and emotion 11 , particularly when psychedelics are investigated in combination with specific 5-HT receptor antagonists. Psychedelics provide a significant advantage over other tools used to study the serotonin system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors or tryptophan depletion, which cannot reveal receptor-specific contributions.
The studies summarized above show that the 5-HT 2A receptor system is critically implicated in emotional, social and self-processing. Blocking the 5-HT 2A receptor with ketanserin before administering LSD showed that this receptor system is involved in the generation of self-relevance 11.
 Whereas individuals with schizophrenia spectrum disorders often experience an increased attribution of relevance to their environment 159 , those suffering from addiction or depression could benefit from changes in self-relevance attribution 160.
 This suggests that treatment with 5-HT 2A agonists may be effective in depression and addiction but not in schizophrenia spectrum disorders.
LSD also alters self-processing and social cognition 12.
 These effects were also blocked with ketanserin, suggesting that aberrant 5-HT 2A receptor-mediated signalling underlies these interdependent changes in self-perception and social processing. This association between self-perception and social perception suggests that individuals who suffer from incoherent self-experience and social withdrawal (as often encountered in schizophrenia) may benefit from treatment with 5-HT 2A receptor antagonists. By contrast, 5-HT 2A receptor agonists may be well suited to treat social deficits in individuals with increased self-focus, such as depression 161.
 This is also in line with results suggesting that stimulating the 5-HT 2A receptor results in a decreased processing of negative emotions 114 , 115 , 116 , an effect that may be helpful in the treatment of depression 46.
 Furthermore, it has been shown that this effect translates to a reduced processing of negative social interaction in the anterior cingulate cortex 20.
 This was associated with decreased aspartate concentrations in the same brain area. The 5-HT 2A receptor system and the aspartate system may therefore be implicated in the pathophysiology and treatment of disorders characterized by increased rejection sensitivity, such as depression and borderline personality disorders 162.
 In sum, these results implicate the 5-HT 2A receptor system in various trans-diagnostic cognitive and emotional processes important for the treatment of depression, addiction and borderline personality disorder, and therefore provide rational targets for the development of novel medication.
Conclusions Scientific interest in the effects of psychedelics has risen sharply in the past decade. Preclinical and clinical studies leveraging modern neuroscientific methods have produced various novel results with significant implications for understanding the neuropharmacology of human cognition, emotion and self-regulation, discovering potential trans-diagnostic treatment mechanisms in psychiatry and the development of novel rapid-acting and long-lasting treatment approaches.
Pharmacological challenge studies investigating the acute effects of single doses of psychedelics in healthy human participants have revealed important insights into the role of the 5-HT 2A receptor in human cognition, emotion and self-regulation. These studies have shown that this specific receptor system is implicated in modulating social functioning, mood regulation and coherent self-representations. Importantly, these studies have also revealed the importance of targeting and studying specific sub-receptor systems to be able to conclusively understand human psychopharmacology and eventually be able to inform the development of new pharmacological therapeutics.
Recent neuroimaging studies have furthermore started to increase our understanding of the ways in which psychedelics temporarily change the functional architecture of the brain. Although different analytical approaches often limit the comparability between studies (see Box 2 ), some congruent patterns have started to emerge. Changes in functional and directed connectivity between the thalamus and cortical areas have been reported across different analysis techniques 31 , 70 , 71.
 In addition, increased synchrony of sensory brain regions and decreased integrity of associative brain regions (including the DMN and the frontoparietal control network) have been reported after the administration of LSD, psilocybin and DMT 31 , 78 , 79 , 83 , 86 , 87 , 89 , 96 , 153.
 However, it has to be noted that some of these effects are sensitive to GSR as outlined in Box 2.
 Increases in various measures of entropy and signal complexity have also been reported after the administration of LSD, psilocybin and DMT 101 , 102 , 104 , 105 , 106.
 Other analytical approaches, such as the investigation of between-network connectivity during the resting state, have so far revealed inconsistent results or still need replication. These results support hypotheses that are not mutually exclusive but, rather, reflect different aspects of changes in neuronal dynamics. It is conceivable that future studies will reveal a more detailed (in terms of both spatial and temporal resolution) pattern of psychedelic-induced changes in brain connectivity that will allow one to better associate these neuronal effects with specific psychedelic-induced subjective experiences.
Studies of the effects of psychedelics in healthy participants have shown that these substances modulate a person’s self-focus, reduce negative emotional processing and strengthen social functioning 12 , 120 , 138.
 Patients across different disorders who underwent treatment with psychedelics identified these effects as contributing to treatment success 149 , 150.
 These experiences may therefore represent trans-diagnostic mechanisms for the treatment of psychiatric illnesses within and beyond the framework of psychedelic-assisted therapy. Additionally, preclinical results point to the potential of induced neuroplasticity as a promising neuronal mechanism that could be leveraged in psychotherapy 54.
Lastly, studies in patient populations show that psychedelics may constitute promising therapeutic agents that represent a novel treatment model in psychiatry: they have been shown to act rapidly and to have long-lasting effects after only a few doses. This is in stark contrast to the current treatment approaches in psychiatry, which usually consist of a regular intake of psychotropic medication. However, many open questions remain. The exact mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects are still not well understood and beneficial clinical results need to be replicated in larger trials. It is unclear whether the therapeutic effects of these substances are due to their direct effects on brain activity and connectivity or due to the cognitive and psychological experience of an altered state of consciousness. In other words, it is unclear whether the conscious experience of the psychedelic-induced subjective effects is necessary for therapeutic efficacy. Furthermore, the field still needs to uncover individual predictors or biomarkers of treatment efficacy. The impact of different approaches to accompanying psychotherapy will also require empirical investigation. Accompanying psychotherapy may turn out to be of critical importance, if the proposed neuroplastic effects of psychedelics indeed contribute to their clinical efficacy. Using psychedelics in a clinical setting can therefore be understood as pharmacologically assisted psychotherapy that leverages the molecular, systems-level and functional alterations induced by psychedelic substances.
References Grinspoon, L. & Bakalar, J. B.
Psychedelic Drugs Reconsidered (Basic Books, 1979).
Mascher, E. in Neuro-Psychopharmacology (ed. Brill, H.) 441–444 (Excerpta-Medica, 1967).
Rucker, J. J., Jelen, L. A., Flynn, S., Frowde, K. D. & Young, A. H. Psychedelics in the treatment of unipolar mood disorders: a systematic review.
J. Psychopharmacol.
30 , 1220–1229 (2016).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Leuner, H. in 50 Years of LSD: Current Status and Perspectives of Hallucinogens: a Symposium of the Swiss Academy of Medical Sciences (eds Pletscher, A. & Ladewig, D.) 175–189 (Parthenon Publisher Group Ltd, 1994).
Krebs, T. S. & Johansen, P. O. Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) for alcoholism: meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
J. Psychopharmacol.
26 , 994–1002 (2012).
PubMed Google Scholar Pletscher, A. & Ladewig, D.
50 Years of LSD: Current Status and Perspectives of Hallucinogens: A Symposium of the Swiss Academy of Medical Sciences (Parthenon Publisher Group Ltd, 1994).
Vollenweider, F. X. & Kometer, M. The neurobiology of psychedelic drugs: implications for the treatment of mood disorders.
Nat. Rev. Neurosci.
11 , 642–651 (2010).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Nichols, D. E. Hallucinogens.
Pharmacol. Ther.
101 , 131–181 (2004).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Halberstadt, A. L. Recent advances in the neuropsychopharmacology of serotonergic hallucinogens.
Behav. Brain Res.
277 , 99–120 (2015).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Halberstadt, A. L., Chatha, M., Klein, A. K., Wallach, J. & Brandt, S. D. Correlation between the potency of hallucinogens in the mouse head-twitch response assay and their behavioral and subjective effects in other species.
Neuropharmacology 167 , 107933 (2020).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Preller, K. H. et al. The fabric of meaning and subjective effects in LSD-induced states depend on serotonin 2A receptor activation.
Curr. Biol.
27 , 451–457 (2017).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Preller, K. H. et al. Role of the 5-HT 2A receptor in self- and other-initiated social interaction in lysergic acid diethylamide-induced states: a pharmacological fMRI study.
J. Neurosci.
38 , 3603–3611 (2018).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Kraehenmann, R. et al. LSD increases primary process thinking via serotonin 2A receptor activation.
Front. Pharmacol.
8 , 814 (2017).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Kraehenmann, R. et al. Dreamlike effects of LSD on waking imagery in humans depend on serotonin 2A receptor activation.
Psychopharmacology 234 , 2031–2046 (2017).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Vollenweider, F. X., Vollenweider-Scherpenhuyzen, M. F., Babler, A., Vogel, H. & Hell, D. Psilocybin induces schizophrenia-like psychosis in humans via a serotonin-2 agonist action.
Neuroreport 9 , 3897–3902 (1998).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Winter, J. C., Rice, K. C., Amorosi, D. J. & Rabin, R. A. Psilocybin-induced stimulus control in the rat.
Pharmacol. Biochem. Behav.
87 , 472–480 (2007).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Benneyworth, M. A., Smith, R. L., Barrett, R. J. & Sanders-Bush, E. Complex discriminative stimulus properties of (+)lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) in C57Bl/6J mice.
Psychopharmacology 179 , 854–862 (2005).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Leysen, J. E. in Neuromethods (eds Boulton, A. A., Baker, G. B. & Butterworth, R.) 299–350 (Springer, 1989).
Titeler, M., Lyon, R. A. & Glennon, R. A. Radioligand binding evidence implicates the brain 5-HT2 receptor as a site of action for LSD and phenylisopropylamine hallucinogens.
Psychopharmacology 94 , 213–216 (1988).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Preller, K. H. et al. Effects of serotonin 2A/1A receptor stimulation on social exclusion processing.
Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 113 , 5119–5124 (2016).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Valle, M. et al. Inhibition of alpha oscillations through serotonin-2A receptor activation underlies the visual effects of ayahuasca in humans.
Eur. Neuropsychopharm 26 , 1161–1175 (2016).
CAS Google Scholar Quednow, B., Geyer, M. A. & Halberstadt, A. L. in Handbook of Behavioral Neurobiology of Serotonin (eds Müller, C. P. & Cunningham, K. A.) 585–619 (Elsevier, 2010).
Madsen, M. K. et al. Psychedelic effects of psilocybin correlate with serotonin 2A receptor occupancy and plasma psilocin levels.
Neuropsychopharmacology 44 , 1328–1334 (2019).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Pokorny, T., Preller, K. H., Kraehenmann, R. & Vollenweider, F. X. Modulatory effect of the 5-HT 1A agonist buspirone and the mixed non-hallucinogenic 5-HT 1A/2A agonist ergotamine on psilocybin-induced psychedelic experience.
Eur. Neuropsychopharmacol.
26 , 756–766 (2016).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Carter, O. L. et al. Modulating the rate and rhythmicity of perceptual rivalry alternations with the mixed 5-HT 2A and 5-HT 1A agonist psilocybin.
Neuropsychopharmacology 30 , 1154–1162 (2005).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Gonzalez-Maeso, J. et al. Hallucinogens recruit specific cortical 5-HT 2A receptor-mediated signaling pathways to affect behavior.
Neuron 53 , 439–452 (2007).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Gonzalez-Maeso, J. et al. Identification of a serotonin/glutamate receptor complex implicated in psychosis.
Nature 452 , 93–97 (2008).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Vollenweider, F. X., Vontobel, P., Hell, D. & Leenders, K. L. 5-HT modulation of dopamine release in basal ganglia in psilocybin-induced psychosis in man — a PET study with [C-11]raclopride.
Neuropsychopharmacology 20 , 424–433 (1999).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Ichikawa, J. & Meltzer, H. Y. The effect of serotonin(1A) receptor agonism on antipsychotic drug-induced dopamine release in rat striatum and nucleus accumbens.
Brain Res.
858 , 252–263 (2000).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Marona-Lewicka, D., Thisted, R. A. & Nichols, D. E. Distinct temporal phases in the behavioral pharmacology of LSD: dopamine D2 receptor-mediated effects in the rat and implications for psychosis.
Psychopharmacologia 180 , 427–435 (2005).
CAS Google Scholar Preller, K. H. et al. Changes in global and thalamic brain connectivity in LSD-induced altered states of consciousness are attributable to the 5-HT 2A receptor.
eLife 7 , e35082 (2018).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Hall, H., Farde, L., Halldin, C., Lundkvist, C. & Sedvall, G. Autoradiographic localization of 5-HT 2A receptors in the human brain using [ 3 H]M100907 and [ 11 C]M100907.
Synapse 38 , 421–431 (2000).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Saulin, A., Savli, M. & Lanzenberger, R. Serotonin and molecular neuroimaging in humans using PET.
Amino Acids 42 , 2039–2057 (2012).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Celada, P., Puig, M. V. & Artigas, F. Serotonin modulation of cortical neurons and networks.
Front. Integr. Neurosci.
7 , 25 (2013).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Marek, G. J. Interactions of hallucinogens with the glutamatergic system: permissive network effects mediated through cortical layer V pyramidal neurons.
Curr. Top. Behav. Neurosci.
36 , 107–135 (2018).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Aghajanian, G. K. & Marek, G. J. Serotonin, via 5-HT 2A receptors, increases EPSCs in layer V pyramidal cells of prefrontal cortex by an asynchronous mode of glutamate release.
Brain Res.
825 , 161–171 (1999).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Puig, M. V., Celada, P., az-Mataix, L. & Artigas, F. In vivo modulation of the activity of pyramidal neurons in the rat medial prefrontal cortex by 5-HT 2A receptors: relationship to thalamocortical afferents.
Cereb. Cortex 13 , 870–882 (2003).
PubMed Google Scholar Wood, J., Kim, Y. & Moghaddam, B. Disruption of prefrontal cortex large scale neuronal activity by different classes of psychotomimetic drugs.
J. Neurosci.
32 , 3022–3031 (2012).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Llado-Pelfort, L. et al. Effects of hallucinogens on neuronal activity.
Curr. Top. Behav. Neurosci.
36 , 75–105 (2018).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Beique, J. C., Imad, M., Mladenovic, L., Gingrich, J. A. & Andrade, R. Mechanism of the 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A receptor-mediated facilitation of synaptic activity in prefrontal cortex.
Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 104 , 9870–9875 (2007).
PubMed Google Scholar Zhang, C. & Marek, G. J. AMPA receptor involvement in 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A receptor-mediated pre-frontal cortical excitatory synaptic currents and DOI-induced head shakes.
Prog. Neuropsychopharmacol. Biol. Psychiatry 32 , 62–71 (2008).
PubMed Google Scholar Aru, J., Suzuki, M., Rutiku, R., Larkum, M. E. & Bachmann, T. Coupling the state and contents of consciousness.
Front. Syst. Neurosci.
13 , 43 (2019).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Barre, A. et al. Presynaptic serotonin 2A receptors modulate thalamocortical plasticity and associative learning.
Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 113 , E1382–E1391 (2016).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Larkum, M. E., Zhu, J. J. & Sakmann, B. A new cellular mechanism for coupling inputs arriving at different cortical layers.
Nature 398 , 338–341 (1999).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Larkum, M. A cellular mechanism for cortical associations: an organizing principle for the cerebral cortex.
Trends Neurosci.
36 , 141–151 (2013).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Disner, S. G., Beevers, C. G., Haigh, E. A. & Beck, A. T. Neural mechanisms of the cognitive model of depression.
Nat. Rev. Neurosci.
12 , 467–477 (2011).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Fisher, P. M. & Hariri, A. R. Identifying serotonergic mechanisms underlying the corticolimbic response to threat in humans.
Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B Biol. Sci.
368 , 20120192 (2013).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Meltzer, H. Y. Serotonergic mechanisms as targets for existing and novel antipsychotics.
Handb. Exp. Pharmacol.
212 , 87–124 (2012).
CAS Google Scholar Northoff, G. Self and brain: what is self-related processing? Trends Cogn. Sci.
15 , 186–187 (2011).
PubMed Google Scholar Carhart-Harris, R. L., Brugger, S., Nutt, D. J. & Stone, J. M. Psychiatry’s next top model: cause for a re-think on drug models of psychosis and other psychiatric disorders.
J. Psychopharmacol.
27 , 771–778 (2013).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Geyer, M. A. & Vollenweider, F. X. Serotonin research: contributions to understanding psychoses.
Trends Pharmacol. Sci.
29 , 445–453 (2008).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Zhang, G. et al. Stimulation of serotonin 2A receptors facilitates consolidation and extinction of fear memory in C57BL/6J mice.
Neuropharmacology 64 , 403–413 (2013).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Catlow, B. J., Song, S., Paredes, D. A., Kirstein, C. L. & Sanchez-Ramos, J. Effects of psilocybin on hippocampal neurogenesis and extinction of trace fear conditioning.
Exp. Brain Res.
228 , 481–491 (2013).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Ly, C. et al. Psychedelics promote structural and functional neural plasticity.
Cell Rep.
23 , 3170–3182 (2018).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Muschamp, J. W., Regina, M. J., Hull, E. M., Winter, J. C. & Rabin, R. A. Lysergic acid diethylamide and [–]-2,5-dimethoxy-4-methylamphetamine increase extracellular glutamate in rat prefrontal cortex.
Brain Res.
1023 , 134–140 (2004).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Scruggs, J. L., Schmidt, D. & Deutch, A. Y. The hallucinogen 1-[2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl]-2-aminopropane (DOI) increases cortical extracellular glutamate levels in rats.
Neurosci. Lett.
346 , 137–140 (2003).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Vaidya, V. A., Marek, G. J., Aghajanian, G. K. & Duman, R. S. 5-HT 2A receptor-mediated regulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA in the hippocampus and the neocortex.
J. Neurosci.
17 , 2785–2795 (1997).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Jourdi, H. et al. Positive AMPA receptor modulation rapidly stimulates BDNF release and increases dendritic mRNA translation.
J. Neurosci.
29 , 8688–8697 (2009).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Rex, C. S. et al. Restoration of long-term potentiation in middle-aged hippocampus after induction of brain-derived neurotrophic factor.
J. Neurophysiol.
96 , 677–685 (2006).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Goff, D. C. et al. A placebo-controlled add-on trial of the Ampakine, CX516, for cognitive deficits in schizophrenia.
Neuropsychopharmacology 33 , 465–472 (2008).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Berthoux, C., Barre, A., Bockaert, J., Marin, P. & Becamel, C. Sustained activation of postsynaptic 5-HT 2A receptors gates plasticity at prefrontal cortex synapses.
Cereb. Cortex 29 , 1659–1669 (2019).
PubMed Google Scholar Vollenweider, F. X. & Geyer, M. A. A systems model of altered consciousness: integrating natural and drug-induced psychoses.
Brain Res. Bull.
56 , 495–507 (2001).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Swerdlow, N. R., Geyer, M. A. & Braff, D. L. Neural circuit regulation of prepulse inhibition of startle in the rat: current knowledge and future challenges.
Psychopharmacology 156 , 194–215 (2001).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Carhart-Harris, R. L. & Friston, K. J. REBUS and the anarchic brain: toward a unified model of the brain action of psychedelics.
Pharmacol. Rev.
71 , 316–344 (2019).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Sipes, T. E. & Geyer, M. A. DOI disrupts prepulse inhibition of startle in rats via 5-HT 2A receptors in the ventral pallidum.
Brain Res.
761 , 97–104 (1997).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Vollenweider, F. X., Csomor, P. A., Knappe, B., Geyer, M. A. & Quednow, B. B. The effects of the preferential 5-HT 2A agonist psilocybin on prepulse inhibition of startle in healthy human volunteers depend on interstimulus interval.
Neuropsychopharmacology 32 , 1876–1887 (2007).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Quednow, B. B., Kometer, M., Geyer, M. A. & Vollenweider, F. X. Psilocybin-induced deficits in automatic and controlled inhibition are attenuated by ketanserin in healthy human volunteers.
Neuropsychopharmacology 37 , 630–640 (2012).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Schmid, Y. et al. Acute effects of lysergic acid diethylamide in healthy subjects.
Biol. Psychiatry 78 , 544–553 (2015).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Riba, J., Rodriguez-Fornells, A. & Barbanoj, M. J. Effects of ayahuasca on sensory and sensorimotor gating in humans as measured by P50 suppression and prepulse inhibition of the startle reflex, respectively.
Psychopharmacology 165 , 18–28 (2002).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Muller, F. et al. Increased thalamic resting-state connectivity as a core driver of LSD-induced hallucinations.
Acta Psychiatr. Scand.
136 , 648–657 (2017).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Preller, K. H. et al. Effective connectivity changes in LSD-induced altered states of consciousness in humans.
Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 116 , 2743–2748 (2019).
PubMed Google Scholar Vollenweider, F. X. et al. Positron emission tomography and fluorodeoxyglucose studies of metabolic hyperfrontality and psychopathology in the psilocybin model of psychosis.
Neuropsychopharmacology 16 , 357–372 (1997).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Gouzoulis-Mayfrank, E. et al. Neurometabolic effects of psilocybin, 3,4-methylenedioxyethylamphetamine (MDE) and d -methamphetamine in healthy volunteers. A double-blind, placebo-controlled PET study with [18F]FDG.
Neuropsychopharmacology 20 , 565–581 (1999).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Vollenweider, F. X. Advances and pathophysiological models of hallucinogenic drug actions in humans: a preamble to schizophrenia research.
Pharmacopsychiatry 31 (Suppl. 2), 92–103 (1998).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Riba, J. et al. Increased frontal and paralimbic activation following ayahuasca, the pan-Amazonian inebriant.
Psychopharmacology 186 , 93–98 (2006).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Hermle, L. et al. Mescaline-induced psychopathological, neuropsychological, and neurometabolic effects in normal subjects — experimental psychosis as a tool for psychiatric research.
Biol. Psychiat 32 , 976–991 (1992).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Lewis, C. R. et al. Two dose investigation of the 5-HT-agonist psilocybin on relative and global cerebral blood flow.
Neuroimage 159 , 70–78 (2017).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Carhart-Harris, R. L. et al. Neural correlates of the psychedelic state as determined by fMRI studies with psilocybin.
Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 109 , 2138–2143 (2012).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Carhart-Harris, R. L. et al. Neural correlates of the LSD experience revealed by multimodal neuroimaging.
Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 113 , 4853–4858 (2016).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Anticevic, A. et al. Association of thalamic dysconnectivity and conversion to psychosis in youth and young adults at elevated clinical risk.
JAMA Psychiat 72 , 882–891 (2015).
Google Scholar McAlonan, K., Cavanaugh, J. & Wurtz, R. H. Guarding the gateway to cortex with attention in visual thalamus.
Nature 456 , 391–394 (2008).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Kometer, M., Pokorny, T., Seifritz, E. & Vollenweider, F. X. Psilocybin-induced spiritual experiences and insightfulness are associated with synchronization of neuronal oscillations.
Psychopharmacology 232 , 3663–3676 (2015).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Muller, F., Dolder, P. C., Schmidt, A., Liechti, M. E. & Borgwardt, S. Altered network hub connectivity after acute LSD administration.
Neuroimage Clin.
18 , 694–701 (2018).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Carhart-Harris, R. L. et al. Functional connectivity measures after psilocybin inform a novel hypothesis of early psychosis.
Schizophr. Bull.
39 , 1343–1351 (2013).
PubMed Google Scholar Roseman, L., Leech, R., Feilding, A., Nutt, D. J. & Carhart-Harris, R. L. The effects of psilocybin and MDMA on between-network resting state functional connectivity in healthy volunteers.
Front. Hum. Neurosci.
8 , 204 (2014).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Palhano-Fontes, F. et al. The psychedelic state induced by ayahuasca modulates the activity and connectivity of the default mode network.
PLoS ONE 10 , e0118143 (2015).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Preller, K. H. et al. Psilocybin induces time-dependent changes in global functional connectivity.
Biol. Psychiatry 88 , 197–207 (2020).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Komorowski, A. et al. Association of protein distribution and gene expression revealed by PET and post-mortem quantification in the serotonergic system of the human brain.
Cereb. Cortex 27 , 117–130 (2017).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Lord, L. D. et al. Dynamical exploration of the repertoire of brain networks at rest is modulated by psilocybin.
Neuroimage 199 , 127–142 (2019).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Tagliazucchi, E. et al. Increased global functional connectivity correlates with LSD-induced ego dissolution.
Curr. Biol.
26 , 1043–1050 (2016).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Muller, F., Liechti, M. E., Lang, U. E. & Borgwardt, S. Advances and challenges in neuroimaging studies on the effects of serotonergic hallucinogens: contributions of the resting brain.
Prog. Brain Res.
242 , 159–177 (2018).
PubMed Google Scholar Fox, M. D. et al. The human brain is intrinsically organized into dynamic, anticorrelated functional networks.
Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 102 , 9673–9678 (2005).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Turner, B. O., Paul, E. J., Miller, M. B. & Barbey, A. K. Small sample sizes reduce the replicability of task-based fMRI studies.
Commun. Biol.
1 , 62 (2018).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Mumford, J. A. & Nichols, T. E. Power calculation for group fMRI studies accounting for arbitrary design and temporal autocorrelation.
Neuroimage 39 , 261–268 (2008).
PubMed Google Scholar Zandbelt, B. B. et al. Within-subject variation in BOLD-fMRI signal changes across repeated measurements: quantification and implications for sample size.
Neuroimage 42 , 196–206 (2008).
PubMed Google Scholar Muthukumaraswamy, S. D. et al. Broadband cortical desynchronization underlies the human psychedelic state.
J. Neurosci.
33 , 15171–15183 (2013).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Klaassens, B. L. et al. Single-dose serotonergic stimulation shows widespread effects on functional brain connectivity.
Neuroimage 122 , 440–450 (2015).
PubMed Google Scholar Mathys, C. D. et al. Uncertainty in perception and the hierarchical Gaussian filter.
Front. Hum. Neurosci.
8 , 825 (2014).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Carhart-Harris, R. L. et al. The entropic brain: a theory of conscious states informed by neuroimaging research with psychedelic drugs.
Front. Hum. Neurosci.
8 , 20 (2014).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Carhart-Harris, R. L. The entropic brain — revisited.
Neuropharmacology 142 , 167–178 (2018).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Schartner, M. M., Carhart-Harris, R. L., Barrett, A. B., Seth, A. K. & Muthukumaraswamy, S. D. Increased spontaneous MEG signal diversity for psychoactive doses of ketamine, LSD and psilocybin.
Sci. Rep.
7 , 46421 (2017).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Timmermann, C. et al. Neural correlates of the DMT experience assessed with multivariate EEG.
Sci. Rep.
9 , 16324 (2019).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Lebedev, A. V. et al. LSD-induced entropic brain activity predicts subsequent personality change.
Hum. Brain Mapp.
37 , 3203–3213 (2016).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Atasoy, S. et al. Connectome-harmonic decomposition of human brain activity reveals dynamical repertoire re-organization under LSD.
Sci. Rep.
7 , 17661 (2017).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Tagliazucchi, E., Carhart-Harris, R., Leech, R., Nutt, D. & Chialvo, D. R. Enhanced repertoire of brain dynamical states during the psychedelic experience.
Hum. Brain Mapp.
35 , 5442–5456 (2014).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Viol, A., Palhano-Fontes, F., Onias, H., de Araujo, D. B. & Viswanathan, G. M. Shannon entropy of brain functional complex networks under the influence of the psychedelic ayahuasca.
Sci. Rep.
7 , 7388 (2017).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Timmermann, C. et al. LSD modulates effective connectivity and neural adaptation mechanisms in an auditory oddball paradigm.
Neuropharmacology 142 , 251–262 (2018).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Umbricht, D. et al. Effects of the 5-HT 2A agonist psilocybin on mismatch negativity generation and AX-continuous performance task: implications for the neuropharmacology of cognitive deficits in schizophrenia.
Neuropsychopharmacology 28 , 170–181 (2003).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Schmidt, A. et al. Mismatch negativity encoding of prediction errors predicts S -ketamine-induced cognitive impairments.
Neuropsychopharmacology 37 , 865–875 (2012).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Sandison, R. A. & Whitelaw, J. D. Further studies in the therapeutic value of lysergic acid diethylamide in mental illness.
J. Ment. Sci.
103 , 332–343 (1957).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Studerus, E., Kometer, M., Hasler, F. & Vollenweider, F. X. Acute, subacute and long-term subjective effects of psilocybin in healthy humans: a pooled analysis of experimental studies.
J. Psychopharmacol.
25 , 1434–1452 (2011).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Roseman, L. et al. Emotional breakthrough and psychedelics: validation of the emotional breakthrough inventory.
J. Psychopharmacol.
33 , 1076–1087 (2019).
PubMed Google Scholar Carhart-Harris, R. L. et al. Implications for psychedelic-assisted psychotherapy: functional magnetic resonance imaging study with psilocybin.
Br. J. Psychiatry 200 , 238–244 (2012).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Dolder, P. C., Schmid, Y., Muller, F., Borgwardt, S. & Liechti, M. E. LSD acutely impairs fear recognition and enhances emotional empathy and sociality.
Neuropsychopharmacology 41 , 2638–2646 (2016).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Kometer, M. et al. Psilocybin biases facial recognition, goal-directed behavior, and mood state toward positive relative to negative emotions through different serotonergic subreceptors.
Biol. Psychiatry 72 , 898–906 (2012).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Bershad, A., Schepers, S., Bremmer, M. & de Wit, H. Subjective and behavioral effects of microdoses of LSD in healthy human volunteers.
Biol. Psychiatry 85 , S345–S345 (2019).
Google Scholar Schmidt, A., Kometer, M., Bachmann, R., Seifritz, E. & Vollenweider, F. X. The NMDA antagonist ketamine and the 5-HT agonist psilocybin produce dissociable effects on structural encoding of emotional face expressions.
Psychopharmacology 225 , 227–239 (2013).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Bernasconi, F. et al. Spatiotemporal brain dynamics of emotional face processing modulations induced by the serotonin 1A/2A receptor agonist psilocybin.
Cereb. Cortex 24 , 3221–3231 (2014).
PubMed Google Scholar Mueller, F. et al. Acute effects of LSD on amygdala activity during processing of fearful stimuli in healthy subjects.
Transl Psychiatry 7 , e1084 (2017).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Kraehenmann, R. et al. Psilocybin-induced decrease in amygdala reactivity correlates with enhanced positive mood in healthy volunteers.
Biol. Psychiatry 78 , 572–581 (2015).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Kraehenmann, R. et al. The mixed serotonin receptor agonist psilocybin reduces threat-induced modulation of amygdala connectivity.
Neuroimage Clin.
11 , 53–60 (2016).
PubMed Google Scholar Grimm, O., Kraehenmann, R., Preller, K. H., Seifritz, E. & Vollenweider, F. X. Psilocybin modulates functional connectivity of the amygdala during emotional face discrimination.
Eur. Neuropsychopharmacol.
28 , 691–700 (2018).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Bershad, A. K. et al. Preliminary report on the effects of a low dose of LSD on resting-state amygdala functional connectivity.
Biol. Psychiatry Cogn. Neurosci. Neuroimaging 5 , 461–467 (2020).
PubMed Google Scholar Barrett, F. S., Doss, M. K., Sepeda, N. D., Pekar, J. J. & Griffiths, R. R. Emotions and brain function are altered up to one month after a single high dose of psilocybin.
Sci. Rep.
10 , 2214 (2020).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Stroud, J. B. et al. Psilocybin with psychological support improves emotional face recognition in treatment-resistant depression.
Psychopharmacology 235 , 459–466 (2018).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Roseman, L., Demetriou, L., Wall, M. B., Nutt, D. J. & Carhart-Harris, R. L. Increased amygdala responses to emotional faces after psilocybin for treatment-resistant depression.
Neuropharmacology 142 , 263–269 (2018).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Mertens, L. J. et al. Therapeutic mechanisms of psilocybin: changes in amygdala and prefrontal functional connectivity during emotional processing after psilocybin for treatment-resistant depression.
J. Psychopharmacol.
34 , 167–180 (2020).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Milliere, R., Carhart-Harris, R. L., Roseman, L., Trautwein, F. M. & Berkovich-Ohana, A. Psychedelics, meditation, and self-consciousness.
Front. Psychol.
9 , 1475 (2018).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Northoff, G. & Bermpohl, F. Cortical midline structures and the self.
Trends Cogn. Sci.
8 , 102–107 (2004).
PubMed Google Scholar Kometer, M., Schmidt, A., Jancke, L. & Vollenweider, F. X. Activation of serotonin 2A receptors underlies the psilocybin-induced effects on alpha oscillations, N170 visual-evoked potentials, and visual hallucinations.
J. Neurosci.
33 , 10544–10551 (2013).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Lebedev, A. V. et al. Finding the self by losing the self: neural correlates of ego-dissolution under psilocybin.
Hum. Brain Mapp.
36 , 3137–3153 (2015).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Nour, M. M. & Carhart-Harris, R. L. Psychedelics and the science of self-experience.
Br. J. Psychiatry 210 , 177–179 (2017).
PubMed Google Scholar Garcia-Romeu, A., Griffiths, R. R. & Johnson, M. W. Psilocybin-occasioned mystical experiences in the treatment of tobacco addiction.
Curr. Drug Abuse Rev.
7 , 157–164 (2014).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Ross, S. et al. Rapid and sustained symptom reduction following psilocybin treatment for anxiety and depression in patients with life-threatening cancer: a randomized controlled trial.
J. Psychopharmacol.
30 , 1165–1180 (2016).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Bogenschutz, M. P. et al. Psilocybin-assisted treatment for alcohol dependence: a proof-of-concept study.
J. Psychopharmacol.
29 , 289–299 (2015).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Griffiths, R. R. et al. Psilocybin produces substantial and sustained decreases in depression and anxiety in patients with life-threatening cancer: a randomized double-blind trial.
J. Psychopharmacol.
30 , 1181–1197 (2016).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Roseman, L., Nutt, D. J. & Carhart-Harris, R. L. Quality of acute psychedelic experience predicts therapeutic efficacy of psilocybin for treatment-resistant depression.
Front. Pharmacol.
8 , 974 (2017).
PubMed Google Scholar Pokorny, T., Preller, K. H., Kometer, M., Dziobek, I. & Vollenweider, F. X. Effect of psilocybin on empathy and moral decision-making.
Int. J. Neuropsychopharmacol.
20 , 747–757 (2017).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Schilbach, L. Towards a second-person neuropsychiatry.
Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B Biol. Sci.
371 , 20150081 (2016).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Millan, M. J. et al. Cognitive dysfunction in psychiatric disorders: characteristics, causes and the quest for improved therapy.
Nat. Rev. Drug. Discov.
11 , 141–168 (2012).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Griffiths, R. R. et al. Psilocybin-occasioned mystical-type experience in combination with meditation and other spiritual practices produces enduring positive changes in psychological functioning and in trait measures of prosocial attitudes and behaviors.
J. Psychopharmacol.
32 , 49–69 (2018).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Griffiths, R. R., Richards, W., Johnson, M., McCann, U. & Jesse, R. Mystical-type experiences occasioned by psilocybin mediate the attribution of personal meaning and spiritual significance 14 months later.
J. Psychopharmacol.
22 , 621–632 (2008).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Griffiths, R. R. et al. Psilocybin occasioned mystical-type experiences: immediate and persisting dose-related effects.
Psychopharmacology 218 , 649–665 (2011).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Griffiths, R. R., Richards, W. A., McCann, U. & Jesse, R. Psilocybin can occasion mystical-type experiences having substantial and sustained personal meaning and spiritual significance.
Psychopharmacology 187 , 268–283 (2006).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Schmid, Y. & Liechti, M. E. Long-lasting subjective effects of LSD in normal subjects.
Psychopharmacology 235 , 535–545 (2018).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Smigielski, L., Scheidegger, M., Kometer, M. & Vollenweider, F. X. Psilocybin-assisted mindfulness training modulates self-consciousness and brain default mode network connectivity with lasting effects.
Neuroimage 196 , 207–215 (2019).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Smigielski, L. et al. Characterization and prediction of acute and sustained response to psychedelic psilocybin in a mindfulness group retreat.
Sci. Rep.
9 , 14914 (2019).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Mason, N. L., Mischler, E., Uthaug, M. V. & Kuypers, K. P. C. Sub-acute effects of psilocybin on empathy, creative thinking, and subjective well-being.
J. Psychoactive Drugs 51 , 123–134 (2019).
PubMed Google Scholar Noorani, T., Garcia-Romeu, A., Swift, T. C., Griffiths, R. R. & Johnson, M. W. Psychedelic therapy for smoking cessation: qualitative analysis of participant accounts.
J. Psychopharmacol.
32 , 756–769 (2018).
PubMed Google Scholar Watts, R., Day, C., Krzanowski, J., Nutt, D. & Carhart-Harris, R. Patients’ accounts of increased “connectedness” and “acceptance” after psilocybin for treatment-resistant depression.
J. Humanist. Psychol.
57 , 520–564 (2017).
Google Scholar Schenberg, E. E. et al. Acute biphasic effects of ayahuasca.
PLoS ONE 10 , e0137202 (2015).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Pallavicini, C. et al. Spectral signatures of serotonergic psychedelics and glutamatergic dissociatives.
Neuroimage 200 , 281–291 (2019).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Kometer, M. & Vollenweider, F. X. Serotonergic hallucinogen-induced visual perceptual alterations.
Curr. Top. Behav. Neurosci.
36 , 257–282 (2018).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Roseman, L. et al. LSD alters eyes-closed functional connectivity within the early visual cortex in a retinotopic fashion.
Hum. Brain Mapp.
37 , 3031–3040 (2016).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar de Araujo, D. B. et al. Seeing with the eyes shut: neural basis of enhanced imagery following ayahuasca ingestion.
Hum. Brain Mapp.
33 , 2550–2560 (2012).
PubMed Google Scholar Kometer, M., Cahn, B. R., Andel, D., Carter, O. L. & Vollenweider, F. X. The 5-HT 2A/1A agonist psilocybin disrupts modal object completion associated with visual hallucinations.
Biol. Psychiatry 69 , 399–406 (2011).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Sinke, C. et al. Genuine and drug-induced synesthesia: a comparison.
Conscious. Cogn.
21 , 1419–1434 (2012).
PubMed Google Scholar Kaelen, M. et al. LSD modulates music-induced imagery via changes in parahippocampal connectivity.
Eur. Neuropsychopharmacol.
26 , 1099–1109 (2016).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Reininghaus, U. et al. Stress sensitivity, aberrant salience, and threat anticipation in early psychosis: an experience sampling study.
Schizophr. Bull.
43 , 712–722 (2016).
Google Scholar Moeller, S. J. & Goldstein, R. Z. Impaired self-awareness in human addiction: deficient attribution of personal relevance.
Trends Cogn. Sci.
18 , 635–641 (2014).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Pyszczynski, T. & Greenberg, J. Self-regulatory perseveration and the depressive self-focusing style: a self-awareness theory of reactive depression.
Psychol. Bull.
102 , 122–138 (1987).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Seidl, E. et al. Response to ostracism in patients with chronic depression, episodic depression and borderline personality disorder a study using Cyberball.
J. Affect. Disord.
260 , 254–262 (2020).
PubMed Google Scholar Amargos-Bosch, M. et al. Co-expression and in vivo interaction of serotonin 1A and serotonin 2A receptors in pyramidal neurons of prefrontal cortex.
Cereb. Cortex 14 , 281–299 (2004).
PubMed Google Scholar Lambe, E. K. & Aghajanian, G. K. Hallucinogen-induced UP states in the brain slice of rat prefrontal cortex: role of glutamate spillover and NR2B–NMDA receptors.
Neuropsychopharmacology 31 , 1682–1689 (2006).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Aghajanian, G. K. & Marek, G. J. Serotonin model of schizophrenia: emerging role of glutamate mechanisms.
Brain Res. Rev.
31 , 302–312 (2000).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Marek, G. J., Wright, R. A., Gewirtz, J. C. & Schoepp, D. D. A major role for thalamocortical afferents in serotonergic hallucinogen receptor function in the rat neocortex.
Neuroscience 105 , 379–392 (2001).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Llado-Pelfort, L., Santana, N., Ghisi, V., Artigas, F. & Celada, P. 5-HT 1A receptor agonists enhance pyramidal cell firing in prefrontal cortex through a preferential action on GABA interneurons.
Cereb. Cortex 22 , 1487–1497 (2012).
PubMed Google Scholar Marek, G. J. & Aghajanian, G. K. LSD and the phenethylamine hallucinogen DOI are potent partial agonists at 5-HT 2A receptors on interneurons in rat piriform cortex.
J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther.
278 , 1373–1382 (1996).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Martin-Ruiz, R. et al. Control of serotonergic function in medial prefrontal cortex by serotonin-2A receptors through a glutamate-dependent mechanism.
J. Neurosci.
21 , 9856–9866 (2001).
CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Dittrich, A. The standardized psychometric assessment of altered states of consciousness (ASCs) in humans.
Pharmacopsychiatry 31 (Suppl. 2), 80–84 (1998).
PubMed Google Scholar Studerus, E., Gamma, A. & Vollenweider, F. X. Psychometric evaluation of the altered states of consciousness rating scale (OAV).
PLoS ONE 5 , e12412 (2010).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Dittrich, A., Lamparter, D. & Maurer, M.
5D-ABZ: Fragebogen zur Erfassung Aussergewöhnlicher Bewusstseinszustände. Eine kurze Einführung [5D-ASC: Questionnaire for the Assessment of Altered States of Consciousness. A Short Introduction] (PSIN Plus, 2006).
Liechti, M. E., Dolder, P. C. & Schmid, Y. Alterations of consciousness and mystical-type experiences after acute LSD in humans.
Psychopharmacology 234 , 1499–1510 (2017).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Murphy, K., Birn, R. M. & Bandettini, P. A. Resting-state fMRI confounds and cleanup.
Neuroimage 80 , 349–359 (2013).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Murphy, K. & Fox, M. D. Towards a consensus regarding global signal regression for resting state functional connectivity MRI.
Neuroimage 154 , 169–173 (2017).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Yang, G. J. et al. Altered global signal topography in schizophrenia.
Cereb. Cortex 27 , 5156–5169 (2017).
PubMed Google Scholar Almgren, H., Van de Steen, F., Razi, A., Friston, K. & Marinazzo, D. The effect of global signal regression on DCM estimates of noise and effective connectivity from resting state fMRI.
Neuroimage 208 , 116435 (2020).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Wang, Z. Improving cerebral blood flow quantification for arterial spin labeled perfusion MRI by removing residual motion artifacts and global signal fluctuations.
Magn. Reson. Imaging 30 , 1409–1415 (2012).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Viviani, R., Abler, B., Seeringer, A. & Stingl, J. C. Effect of paroxetine and bupropion on human resting brain perfusion: an arterial spin labeling study.
Neuroimage 61 , 773–779 (2012).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Handley, R. et al. Acute effects of single-dose aripiprazole and haloperidol on resting cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the human brain.
Hum. Brain Mapp.
34 , 272–282 (2013).
PubMed Google Scholar Goldberg, S. B., Pace, B. T., Nicholas, C. R., Raison, C. L. & Hutson, P. R. The experimental effects of psilocybin on symptoms of anxiety and depression: a meta-analysis.
Psychiatry Res.
284 , 112749 (2020).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Johnson, M. W., Garcia-Romeu, A., Cosimano, M. P. & Griffiths, R. R. Pilot study of the 5-HT 2A R agonist psilocybin in the treatment of tobacco addiction.
J. Psychopharmacol.
28 , 983–992 (2014).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Osorio Fde, L. et al. Antidepressant effects of a single dose of ayahuasca in patients with recurrent depression: a preliminary report.
Rev. Bras. Psiquiatr.
37 , 13–20 (2015).
PubMed Google Scholar Sanches, R. F. et al. Antidepressant effects of a single dose of ayahuasca in patients with recurrent depression: a SPECT study.
J. Clin. Psychopharmacol.
36 , 77–81 (2016).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Carhart-Harris, R. L. et al. Psilocybin with psychological support for treatment-resistant depression: an open-label feasibility study.
Lancet Psychiatry 3 , 619–627 (2016).
PubMed Google Scholar Carhart-Harris, R. L. et al. Psilocybin with psychological support for treatment-resistant depression: six-month follow-up.
Psychopharmacology 235 , 399–408 (2018).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Carhart-Harris, R. L. et al. Psilocybin for treatment-resistant depression: fMRI-measured brain mechanisms.
Sci. Rep.
7 , 13187 (2017).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Brakowski, J. et al. Resting state brain network function in major depression — depression symptomatology, antidepressant treatment effects, future research.
J. Psychiatr. Res.
92 , 147–159 (2017).
PubMed Google Scholar Gasser, P. et al. Safety and efficacy of lysergic acid diethylamide-assisted psychotherapy for anxiety associated with life-threatening diseases.
J. Nerv. Ment. Dis.
202 , 513–520 (2014).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Palhano-Fontes, F. et al. Rapid antidepressant effects of the psychedelic ayahuasca in treatment-resistant depression: a randomized placebo-controlled trial.
Psychol. Med.
49 , 655–663 (2019).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Grob, C. S. et al. Pilot study of psilocybin treatment for anxiety in patients with advanced-stage cancer.
Arch. Gen. Psychiatry 68 , 71–78 (2011).
CAS PubMed Google Scholar Gasser, P., Kirchner, K. & Passie, T. LSD-assisted psychotherapy for anxiety associated with a life-threatening disease: a qualitative study of acute and sustained subjective effects.
J. Psychopharmacol.
29 , 57–68 (2015).
PubMed Google Scholar Download references Acknowledgements This work was supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation (to F.X.V. and K.H.P), the Swiss Neuromatrix Foundation (to F.X.V. and K.H.P.), the Heffter Research Institute (to F.X.V.) and the Carey and Claudia Turnbull Foundation N.Y. (to F.X.V.).
Author information Authors and Affiliations Neuropsychopharmacology and Brain Imaging, Department of Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics, University Hospital for Psychiatry Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland Franz X. Vollenweider & Katrin H. Preller Authors Franz X. Vollenweider View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Katrin H. Preller View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Contributions The authors contributed equally to all aspects of the article.
Corresponding author Correspondence to Franz X. Vollenweider.
Ethics declarations Competing interests The authors declare no competing interests.
Additional information Peer review information Nature Reviews Neuroscience thanks K. Friston, J. González-Maeso, M Johnson, M. Massimini and the other, anonymous, reviewer(s) for their contribution to the peer review of this work.
Publisher’s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
Glossary A therapy model that refers to the adjuvant use of one or a few doses of a classic psychedelic in combination with psychotherapeutic support. The process will commonly include a few drug-free preparation sessions, followed by a drug session and a few follow-up integration sessions of the psychedelic experience.
A nuclear medicine functional imaging technique that uses radioligands to assess metabolic processes and receptor density and occupancy in the brain.
Temporary depolarizations of the postsynaptic neuronal membrane potential that make it more likely that the neuron will exert an action potential.
A self-generated network activity that arises from the recurrent synaptic architecture of the cortex. One form of such activity is the up state, in which neurons transiently receive bombardments of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs that depolarize many neurons to the spike threshold before returning to a relatively quiescent down state.
The brain’s ability to reorganize itself by forming new neural connections throughout life. Neuroplasticity allows the neurons in the brain to compensate for injury and disease, and to adjust their activities in response to new situations or to changes in their environment.
Long-lasting, activity-dependent decreases in synaptic strength.
(fMRI). A neuroimaging technique that measures brain activity by detecting changes associated with blood flow.
A framework for inferring the causal architecture of coupled or distributed dynamic systems, which allows the coupling between brain regions to be estimated.
The prior probability distributions in Bayesian statistical inference, which express one’s beliefs before some evidence is taken into account.
An imaging method used to quantify cerebral blood perfusion by magnetic labelling of arterial blood.
A signal detected in functional MRI and used to investigate regional brain activity changes.
Brain networks determined by their spatially independent and temporally correlated functional connectivity.
(DMN). A brain network consisting of various large regions, such as the posterior cingulate cortex, precuneus, medial prefrontal cortex and angular gyrus.
A class of drugs increasing the level of serotonin by inhibiting the reuptake into the presynaptic cell, used to treat depression and anxiety disorders.
A framework that views the brain as an organ of inference that is constantly generating and updating a mental model of the environment.
A measure of uncertainty about a dynamical phenomenon (in this context, neuronal fluctuations across time).
An imaging technique used to map brain activity by recording magnetic fields produced by electrical currents in the brain.
An electrophysiological imaging method that records the electrical activity of the brain using electrodes placed on the scalp.
Neural oscillations in the frequency range of 8–12 Hz that can be measured using electroencephalography or magnetoencephalography.
A perceptual phenomenon in which stimulation of one sensory modality leads to experiences in a second sensory modality.
Studies involving the administration of a pharmacological substance.
Rights and permissions Reprints and Permissions About this article Cite this article Vollenweider, F.X., Preller, K.H. Psychedelic drugs: neurobiology and potential for treatment of psychiatric disorders.
Nat Rev Neurosci 21 , 611–624 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41583-020-0367-2 Download citation Accepted : 07 August 2020 Published : 14 September 2020 Issue Date : November 2020 DOI : https://doi.org/10.1038/s41583-020-0367-2 Share this article Anyone you share the following link with will be able to read this content: Sorry, a shareable link is not currently available for this article.
Provided by the Springer Nature SharedIt content-sharing initiative This article is cited by Dose-response relationships of LSD-induced subjective experiences in humans Tim Hirschfeld Johanna Prugger Timo T. Schmidt Neuropsychopharmacology (2023) 5-HT2AR and NMDAR psychedelics induce similar hyper-synchronous states in the rat cognitive-limbic cortex-basal ganglia system Ivani Brys Sebastian A. Barrientos Pär Halje Communications Biology (2023) DNA methylation and the opposing NMDAR dysfunction in schizophrenia and major depression disorders: a converging model for the therapeutic effects of psychedelic compounds in the treatment of psychiatric illness L. Taylor Flynn Wen-Jun Gao Molecular Psychiatry (2023) Does the trip matter? Investigating the role of the subjective effects of psychedelics in persisting therapeutic effects Katherine M. Nautiyal David B. Yaden Neuropsychopharmacology (2023) Antidepressants enter cells, organelles, and membranes Zack Blumenfeld Kallol Bera Henry A. Lester Neuropsychopharmacology (2023) You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF Associated content Nature Outlook Psychedelic medicine Advertisement Explore content Research articles Reviews & Analysis News & Comment Videos Current issue Collections Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Sign up for alerts RSS feed About the journal Aims & Scope Journal Information About the Editors Journal Credits Editorial input and checks Editorial Values Statement Journal Metrics Publishing model Editorial policies Posters Conferences Web Feeds Contact Publish with us For Authors For Referees Submit manuscript Search Quick links Explore articles by subject Find a job Guide to authors Editorial policies Nature Reviews Neuroscience ( Nat. Rev. Neurosci.
) ISSN 1471-0048 (online) ISSN 1471-003X (print) nature.com sitemap About Nature Portfolio About us Press releases Press office Contact us Discover content Journals A-Z Articles by subject Nano Protocol Exchange Nature Index Publishing policies Nature portfolio policies Open access Author & Researcher services Reprints & permissions Research data Language editing Scientific editing Nature Masterclasses Live Expert Trainer-led workshops Research Solutions Libraries & institutions Librarian service & tools Librarian portal Open research Recommend to library Advertising & partnerships Advertising Partnerships & Services Media kits Branded content Career development Nature Careers Nature Conferences Nature events Regional websites Nature Africa Nature China Nature India Nature Italy Nature Japan Nature Korea Nature Middle East Privacy Policy Use of cookies Your privacy choices/Manage cookies Legal notice Accessibility statement Terms & Conditions Your US state privacy rights © 2023 Springer Nature Limited Close Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Close Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
