old id = 2211
Enforcing Against Manipulated Media | Meta
2020
https://about.fb.com/news/2020/01/enforcing-against-manipulated-media

Viewing this site in English Portugese German French Japanese Korean Spanish (LTAM) Spanish (ES) Você está visualizando este site em Inglês Português Alemão Francês Japonês Coreano Espanhol (LTAM) Espanhol (ES) Diese Seite anzeigen auf Englisch Portugiesisch Deutsch Französisch Japanisch Koreanisch Spanisch (LTAM) Spanisch (ES) Vous consultez ce site en Anglais Portugais Allemand Français Japonais Coréen Espagnol (LTAM) Espagnol (ES) このサイトを次の言語で表示 英語 ポルトガル語 ドイツ語 フランス語 日本語 韓国語 スペイン語 (LTAM) スペイン語 (ES) 다음 언어로 표시 중 영어 포르투갈어 독일어 프랑스어 일본어 한국어 스페인어 (LTAM) 스페인어 (ES) Este sitio se está viendo en Inglés Portugués Alemán Francés Japonés Coreano Español (LTAM) Español (ES) Este sitio se está viendo en Inglés Portugués Alemán Francés Japonés Coreano Español (LTAM) Español (ES) Dismiss locale prompt Meta.
st0{fill:#1c2b33}.st1{clip-path:url(#SVGID_1_)}.st2{clip-path:url(#SVGID_3_)}.st3{fill:url(#SVGID_6_)} Shop Menu Menu Back Our technologies Menu Menu Back About us Menu Menu Back Build with us Menu Menu Back Support Help Center Virtual reality Meta Quest overview Meta Quest Pro Meta Quest 2 Accessories Apps and games App Store gift cards VR experiences Meta Portal overview Meta Portal TV Meta Portal 10″ Meta Portal Go Meta Portal Plus Smart glasses with Ray-Ban Ray-Ban Stories overview Wayfarer Round Meteor Virtual reality Meta Quest overview Meta Quest Pro Meta Quest 2 Accessories Apps and games App Store gift cards VR experiences Smart glasses with Ray-Ban Ray-Ban Stories overview Wayfarer Round Meteor Devices Meta Quest Meta Portal Ray-Ban Stories Apps Meta Horizon Facebook Messenger Instagram WhatsApp Work products Work tools overview Virtual reality headsets Video calling devices Meta Horizon Workrooms Workplace Learn about all technologies Devices Meta Quest Meta Portal Ray-Ban Stories Apps Meta Horizon Facebook Messenger Instagram WhatsApp Work products Work tools overview Virtual reality headsets Video calling devices Meta Horizon Workrooms Workplace Learn about all technologies The metaverse Who we are Our actions Our community News Learn about Meta Businesses Creators Developers Careers Investors Media Researchers Engineers Government, Politics & Advocacy Nonprofits Educators Shop Help Center Product support home Meta Quest Meta Portal Ray-Ban Stories Find order App Help Center Meta Horizon Facebook Messenger Instagram WhatsApp Workplace Shop Help Center Product support home Meta Quest Meta Portal Ray-Ban Stories Find order App Help Center Meta Horizon Facebook Messenger Instagram WhatsApp Workplace Enforcing Against Manipulated Media January 6, 2020 June 22, 2020 People share millions of photos and videos on Facebook every day, creating some of the most compelling and creative visuals on our platform. Some of that content is manipulated, often for benign reasons, like making a video sharper or audio more clear. But there are people who engage in media manipulation in order to mislead.
Manipulations can be made through simple technology like Photoshop or through sophisticated tools that use artificial intelligence or “deep learning” techniques to create videos that distort reality – usually called “deepfakes.” While these videos are still rare on the internet, they present a significant challenge for our industry and society as their use increases.
Today we want to describe how we are addressing both deepfakes and all types of manipulated media. Our approach has several components, from investigating AI-generated content and deceptive behaviors like fake accounts, to partnering with academia, government and industry to exposing people behind these efforts.
Collaboration is key. Across the world, we’ve been driving conversations with more than 50 global experts with technical, policy, media, legal, civic and academic backgrounds to inform our policy development and improve the science of detecting manipulated media.
As a result of these partnerships and discussions, we are strengthening our policy toward misleading manipulated videos that have been identified as deepfakes. Going forward, we will remove misleading manipulated media if it meets the following criteria : It has been edited or synthesized – beyond adjustments for clarity or quality – in ways that aren’t apparent to an average person and would likely mislead someone into thinking that a subject of the video said words that they did not actually say. And: It is the product of artificial intelligence or machine learning that merges, replaces or superimposes content onto a video, making it appear to be authentic.
This policy does not extend to content that is parody or satire, or video that has been edited solely to omit or change the order of words.
Consistent with our existing policies, audio, photos or videos, whether a deepfake or not, will be removed from Facebook if they violate any of our other Community Standards including those governing nudity, graphic violence, voter suppression and hate speech.
Videos that don’t meet these standards for removal are still eligible for review by one o f our independent third-party fact-checkers , which include over 50 partners worldwide fact-checking in over 40 languages. If a photo or video is rated false or partly false by a fact-checker, we significantly reduce its distribution in News Feed and reject it if it’s being run as an ad.
And critically, people who see it, try to share it, or have already shared it, will see warnings alerting them that it’s false.
This approach is critical to our strategy and one we heard specifically from our conversations with experts. If we simply removed all manipulated videos flagged by fact-checkers as false, the videos would still be available elsewhere on the internet or social media ecosystem. By leaving them up and labelling them as false, we’re providing people with important information and context.
Our enforcement strategy against misleading manipulated media also benefits from our efforts to root out the people behind these efforts. Just last month, we identified and removed a network using AI-generated photos to conceal their fake accounts. Our teams continue to proactively hunt for fake accounts and other coordinated inauthentic behavior.
We are also engaged in the identification of manipulated content, of which deepfakes are the most challenging to detect. That’s why last September we launched the Deep Fake Detection Challenge , which has spurred people from all over the world to produce more research and open source tools to detect deepfakes. This project, supported by $10 million in grants, includes a cross-sector coalition of organizations including the Partnership on AI, Cornell Tech, the University of California Berkeley, MIT, WITNESS, Microsoft, the BBC and AWS, among several others in civil society and the technology, media and academic communities.
In a separate effort, we’ve partnered with Reuters, the world’s largest multimedia news provider, to help newsrooms worldwide to identify deepfakes and manipulated media through a free online training course.
 News organizations increasingly rely on third parties for large volumes of images and video, and identifying manipulated visuals is a significant challenge. This program aims to support newsrooms trying to do this work.
As these partnerships and our own insights evolve, so too will our policies toward manipulated media. In the meantime, we’re committed to investing within Facebook and working with other stakeholders in this area to find solutions with real impact.
Company News Integrity and Security Meta Public Policy Safety and Expression Combating Misinformation Related News Updates to Polls and Sharing With Captions on WhatsApp May 4, 2023 May 5, 2023 Topics Company News Technology and Innovation Data and Privacy Safety and Expression Combating Misinformation Economic Opportunity Election Integrity Strengthening Communities Diversity and Inclusion Featured News WhatsApp Multiple Accounts Coming to WhatsApp October 19, 2023 Meta Introducing Broadcast Channels on Facebook and Messenger October 18, 2023 Facebook.
st0{fill:#1c2b33}.st1{clip-path:url(#SVGID_1_)}.st2{clip-path:url(#SVGID_3_)}.st3{fill:url(#SVGID_6_)} Virtual reality Shop Meta Quest Refurbished Meta Quest 2 VR for Good Forums Referrals Blog Creators Download SDKs Developers Made for Meta partner program Meta Quest health & safety information Meta Quest safety center VR for work Video calling Shop Meta Portal Compare Features Private by design Meta Portal health & safety information Smart glasses Shop Ray-Ban Stories Privacy information Terms of service Data policy Supported countries About us About Meta Media gallery Brand resources For investors Our community Support SMB Giving together Social impact Business and community growth VR for Good Our actions Data and privacy Safety and expression Elections COVID-19 response Regulations Support Shop Help Center Order status Returns Find a product demo Legal Facebook Help Center Messenger Help Center Instagram Help Center WhatsApp Help Center Workplace Help Center Meta Quest Meta Verified Facebook.
st0{fill:#1c2b33}.st1{clip-path:url(#SVGID_1_)}.st2{clip-path:url(#SVGID_3_)}.st3{fill:url(#SVGID_6_)} Follow Us Virtual reality Shop Meta Quest Refurbished Meta Quest 2 VR for Good Forums Referrals Blog Creators Download SDKs Developers Made for Meta partner program Meta Quest health & safety information Meta Quest safety center VR for work Smart glasses Shop Ray-Ban Stories Privacy information Terms of service Data policy Supported countries Support Shop Help Center Order status Returns Find a product demo Legal Facebook Help Center Messenger Help Center Instagram Help Center WhatsApp Help Center Workplace Help Center Meta Quest Meta Verified About us About Meta Media gallery Brand resources For investors Our community Support SMB Giving together Social impact Business and community growth VR for Good Our actions Data and privacy Safety and expression Elections COVID-19 response Regulations © 2023 Meta To help personalize content, tailor and measure ads, and provide a safer experience, we use cookies. By clicking or navigating the site, you agree to allow our collection of information on and off Facebook through cookies. Learn more, including about available controls: Cookie Policy
