old id = 726
Artificial intelligence, revealed - Engineering at Meta
2016
https://code.fb.com/ai-research/ai-revealed

Open Source Open Source Meta Open Source Platforms Android iOS Web Infrastructure Systems Core Infra Data Infrastructure DevInfra Production Engineering Security Research Publications Physical Infrastructure Connectivity Data Center Engineering Networking & Traffic Research Publications Video Engineering & AR/VR Video Engineering Virtual Reality Research Publications Artificial Intelligence ML Applications AI Research Research Publications Watch Videos MAY 10, 2016 AI Research , ML Applications The idea of intelligent machines has fascinated people for centuries. And while it may seem like something out of science fiction, people today use artificial intelligence every day in their smartphones, houses, cars and more. It’s becoming more and more prevalent in our world. At Facebook, we use AI to translate text between languages, to describe images for visually impaired people, and more. In this video, our head of AI research, Yann LeCun, explains some of the key concepts that make all of this possible and why you should care.
Machine Learning Can you tell the difference between a car and a dog? That’s probably easy for you, but it’s very complex to teach computers how. The process is called machine learning, and with the right algorithms we can train a computer to recognize objects in images. Check out this video to learn how it works — right down to the pixels.
Gradient Descent Artificial intelligence is all about math. For example: Gradient descent is a mathematical technique used while training a computer. By calculating how every adjustment in the training will affect the accuracy of the final result, we can teach computers to distinguish between objects in images (like a car and a dog) with lower levels of error. This video explains how.
Deep Learning When you look at a dog, you immediately know it’s a dog. But computers work differently. To understand an image, intelligent machines need to complete several steps, or “layers” of processing to identify all the features that make up the whole. This is deep learning. Watch this video for a window into how computers “think.” Back Propagation With deep learning, a computer performs several layers of processing in order to identify objects in an image. As this happens, it’s important to know how each layer of processing specifically affects the end result. An algorithm called back propagation makes this possible. Learn more: Convolutional Neural Networks In an image, the same object can appear in many different positions — For example, a dog can be lying down or standing up, jumping or facing backward. This makes it very difficult for a computer to recognize a dog in all its possible forms. To do so, we use convolutional neural networks — a way of structuring a deep learning system inspired by the architecture of the human brain. With multiple detectors that each recognize a specific part of the dog, computers can better recognize that object. This also works for text recognition, speech understanding, and is part of many self-driving cars.
Share this: Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Email Read More in AI Research OCT 18, 2023 AUG 24, 2023 AUG 14, 2023 MAY 18, 2023 JUN 14, 2022 JUL 15, 2021 Related Posts Mar 27, 2019 Turing Award presented to Yann LeCun, Geoffrey Hinton, and Yoshua Bengio Feb 15, 2019 FAIR open-sources new ELF OpenGo data set, research, and insights Dec 05, 2018 FAIR turns five: What we've accomplished and where we're headed Related Positions Research Engineer AI for Chemistry - FAIR SAN FRANCISCO, US Fundamental AI Research Scientist, Core ML - FAIR PITTSBURGH, US Fundamental AI Research Scientist, Core ML - FAIR MENLO PARK, US Fundamental AI Research Scientist, Core ML - FAIR SEATTLE, US Fundamental AI Research Scientist, Core ML - FAIR NEW YORK, US Available Positions Research Engineer AI for Chemistry - FAIR SAN FRANCISCO, US Fundamental AI Research Scientist, Core ML - FAIR PITTSBURGH, US Fundamental AI Research Scientist, Core ML - FAIR MENLO PARK, US Fundamental AI Research Scientist, Core ML - FAIR SEATTLE, US Fundamental AI Research Scientist, Core ML - FAIR NEW YORK, US Stay Connected Engineering at Meta Like Meta Open Source Follow Meta Research Like Meta for Developers Like RSS Subscribe Open Source Meta believes in building community through open source technology. Explore our latest projects in Artificial Intelligence, Data Infrastructure, Development Tools, Front End, Languages, Platforms, Security, Virtual Reality, and more.
ANDROID iOS WEB BACKEND HARDWARE Engineering at Meta is a technical news resource for engineers interested in how we solve large-scale technical challenges at Meta.
Home Company Info Careers Terms Privacy Cookies Help To help personalize content, tailor and measure ads and provide a safer experience, we use cookies. By clicking or navigating the site, you agree to allow our collection of information on and off Facebook through cookies. Learn more, including about available controls: Cookie Policy
