old id = 779
OII | Latest Reports
2021
https://www.oii.ox.ac.uk/news-events/reports

Research Research Section Home Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Section Home Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People Section Home OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events Section Home News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Section Home Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library Research Research Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library OII > News & Events > Latest Reports Sort by: Order: Keyword: 1 … AI in the News: Reshaping the Information Ecosystem? By Felix M. Simon and Luisa Fernanda Isaza-Ibarra How might AI be used and regulated in the news to the benefit of journalists, news organisations, and the public? This report presents findings and recommendations from the Minderoo ‘AI in the News’ project.
Automating Democracy: Generative AI, Journalism, and the Future of Democracy By Amy Ross Arguedas and Felix M. Simon Generative AI stands to reshape journalism and society. What will these effects be Can we protect democratic values? This report presents findings from the 'Automating Democracy' project and open questions to be addressed as AI unfolds its effects.
AI, Gender, & Development in Africa: Feminist Policy Considerations By Rutendo Chabikwa This report provides an overview of whether African governments and regional bodies incorporate adequate consideration of gender in their discussions of AI and its potential role in economic development.
Can the Internet Advance the Social Good? Mapping the Landscape By Professor Ralph Schroeder This report provides an overview of how the internet may play a role in promoting the social good, focusing on the areas of the public understandings of history and of climate change.
Developing and matching skills in the online platform economy By Cedefop Cedefop’s CrowdLearn study is the first to examine skills development and skill matching practices in online platform work. It presents evidence from interviews with platform economy stakeholders, as well as crowdworkers themselves.
AI and the Arts: How Machine Learning is Changing Creative Work By Anne Ploin, Rebecca Eynon, Isis Hjorth, and Michael A. Osborne There has been much talk about the potential of AI, but could it really transform the creative arts? Harmonising Artificial Intelligence By Mark McFadden, Kate Jones, Emily Taylor and Georgia Osborn, Oxford Information Labs The draft EU AI Regulation is a far-reaching attempt to provide a regulatory foundation for the safe, fair, and innovative development of Artificial Intelligence in the European Union.
Surveillance as a Service By Yung Au Yung Au’s new report Surveillance as a Service: The European AI-Assisted Mass Surveillance Marketplace examines the European marketplace that produces and exports AI-assisted surveillance systems to governments around the world.
Reconfigure: Feminist Action Research in Cybersecurity By Julia Slupska, Scarlet Dawson Duckworth, Gina Neff, Nayana Prakash, Selina Cho, Linda Ma, Laura Shepherd, Hayyu Imanda, Hubert Au, Antonella Perini, and Romy Minko The discourse around cybersecurity can often seem academic and exclusive. The Reconfigure project aims to build a feminist alternative and this report sets out findings from a pilot study applying “action research” methods to cybersecurity questions.
Work in the Planetary Labour Market: Fairwork Cloudwork Ratings 2021 By Kelle Howson, Hannah Johnston, Nancy Salem, Robbie Warin, Fabian Ferrari, Yihan Zhu, Pablo Aguera Reneses, Funda Ustek-Spilda, Daniel Arubayi, Srujana Katta, Shelly Steward, Matthew Cole, Adam Badger, and Mark Graham What sort of working standards do gig economy remote workers face? This Fairwork report scores 17 platforms on the conditions they offer, and highlights the failure to offer basic standards of fairness across much of the cloudwork industry.
Libraries on the Front Lines of the Digital Divide: The Oxfordshire Digital Inclusion Project Report By Kira Allmann, Grant Blank, and Annique Wong In the era of ‘compulsory computing’, libraries offer crucial resources for those caught on the wrong side of the digital divide. Yet, this report finds that Oxfordshire libraries are significantly under-resourced when it comes to digital provision.
Fairwork UK Ratings 2021: Labour Standards in the Gig Economy By Alessio Bertolini, Matthew Cole, Mark Graham, Srujana Katta, Daniel Arubayi, and Funda Ustek-Spilda Workers in the growing gig economy face persistent gaps in worker protections. This first Fairwork UK ratings report scores ten platforms on the working conditions that they offer and highlights where labour standards need improving.
1 … 1 St Giles, Oxford, OX1 3JS, UK +44 (0)1865 287210 General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk FOLLOW US: INFORMATION FOR: Prospective students Alumni Job seekers Media Policy makers We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings.
Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies Google Analytics Privacy Overview This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies moove_gdrp_popup - a cookie that saves your preferences for cookie settings. Without this cookie, the screen offering you cookie options will appear on every page you visit.
This cookie remains on your computer for 365 days, but you can adjust your preferences at any time by clicking on the "Cookie settings" link in the website footer.
Please note that if you visit the Oxford University website, any cookies you accept there will appear on our site here too, this being a subdomain. To control them, you must change your cookie preferences on the main University website.
Enable or Disable Cookies Google Analytics This website uses Google Tags and Google Analytics to collect anonymised information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping these cookies enabled helps the OII improve our website.
Enabling this option will allow cookies from: Google Analytics - tracking visits to the ox.ac.uk and oii.ox.ac.uk domains These cookies will remain on your website for 365 days, but you can edit your cookie preferences at any time via the "Cookie Settings" button in the website footer.
Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! GDPR Cookie Compliance
