old id = 1189
Department Of Computer Science | Makerere University
2021
https://cs.mak.ac.ug/news/view/19

Makerere University Department of Computer Science Home About Department Overview Contact Department Faculty Administrative Staff Research Research Groups & Centers Flagship Research Projects Admissions General Information Deadlines Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduates Visting CS Department Curriculum Current Curriculum(V2021) Old Curriculum(V2017) News &Events Funding & Scholarships New Scholarships DeepMind Scholarships UW<>Mak Fellowships Scholars Notice Board Graduation List Admission List Timetables Results Feedback FAQs News News Details Mak <> UW PhD exchange program Launched By: Administrator | June 07, 2021 The Department of Computer Science, Makerere University (Mak) has launched a PhD exchange program with The Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering, University of Washington (UW) in Seattle, USA. The exchange program will support PhD students from Makerere University for a 1-year research visit at University of Washington, Seattle, USA. The program will support three (3) PhD students per year for the next three years starting in the fall of 2021 This program is funded by Paul Maritz.
What support does the program provide? Monthly stipend for 1-year stay in Seattle Equipment (laptop) Travel to Seattle How many positions are available? Three (3) positions are available for the 2021/22 academic year.
Eligibility The scholarships are open to students who are citizens of Uganda and current PhD students in Computer Science or Software Engineering at Makerere University. If not yet admitted, candidates should have secured an admission by August 2021. We prefer PhD students who are not more than 2 years into the PhD program.
Applying for the exchange program To apply for the scholarship please complete the online application form.
 The deadline for submitting a scholarship application is June 30, 2021 at 11:00PM (East African Time).
Information session There will be an information session on Tuesday 15th June at 15h0 0. Please register here to receive an invitation https://zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_F-EH4LjzTCq3NowSp5aTPw About UW and The Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering Founded in 1861, the University of Washington has 48,000 students (32,500 undergraduate and 15,500 graduate/professional) and more than 2,000 full-time instructional faculty divided into 16 schools and colleges.
 The University's annual operating budget is nearly $8 billion (inclusive of the UW Medicine health care system), roughly 5% of which comes from the State.
The Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering began as an inter-college graduate program in 1967. In 1975 an undergraduate program in Computer Science was added and departmental status was conferred. A second undergraduate program, in Computer Engineering, was added in 1989 when the department moved to the College of Engineering.
A Professional Master's Program was added in 1996, and a combined Bachelors/Masters program was added in 2008. In 2017 - our 50th anniversary year - the University of Washington Board of Regents voted to create the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering, elevating our status within the university and linking us in perpetuity with the internationally renowned investor, philanthropist and computing pioneer.
About the Department of Computer Science at Makerere University The Department of Computer Science is one of the four Departments in the School of Computing and IT of the College of Computing and Information Sciences at Makerere University. The Department is recognized as one of the top Computer Science departments in Africa. Faculty and students in the Department are undertaking innovative research in areas such as machine learning, computer vision, natural language processing, and software systems security. The Department of Computer Science hosts the Makerere AI research lab that specialises in AI research and its applications to real world challenges including the automated diagnosis of crop and human diseases, auction design for mobile commodity markets, Google-funded research on monitoring and analysis of air pollution and traffic patterns in African cities.
https://cs.mak.ac.ug Program coordinators Engineer Bainomugisha , Associate Professor & Chair, Department of Computer Science, Makerere University Joyce Nakatumba-Nabende , Lecturer & Head, AI Lab, Department of Computer Science, Makerere University Richard Anderson , Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Washington Contact Department of Computer Science Computer.Science@mak.ac.ug Latest News & Events 21 Aug Faculty member of the computer science department wins grant 21 Aug Head of Makerere Artificial Intelligence lab Wins Grant 15 Feb Advertisement – Three CS Graduate Fellows Needed 18 Mar Six New DeepMind scholarships at Makerere University 07 Jun Mak <> UW PhD exchange program Launched Contact Us [javascript protected email address] Academics & Research People OTHER USEFUL LINKS © 2023 - Makerere University Department of Computer Science
