old id = 1361
Google-Funded Startup Merlin Labs Will Soon Fly 55 Autonomous Planes
2021
https://singularityhub.com/2021/05/27/google-funded-startup-merlin-labs-will-soon-fly-55-autonomous-planes

Topics AI Biotech Computing Space Energy Future Tech Robotics Science Experts Featured Experts Perspectives Books Events Videos Latest Series Interviews About Singularity About Programs Membership Experts Community Careers Subscribe Welcome! Search.
News and Insights from Singularity Group Search Subscribe to our newsletter Singularity Group Singularity Community Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube.
st0{fill:#FFFFFF;} .st1{fill:url(#SVGID_1_);} Singularity Hub News and Insights from Singularity Group Topics Experts Events Videos Search singularity group singularity community Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube.
st0{fill:#FFFFFF;} .st1{fill:url(#SVGID_1_);} Singularity Hub News and Insights from Singularity Group Topics Experts Events Videos Search Google-Funded Startup Merlin Labs Will Soon Fly 55 Autonomous Planes By Self-driving cars are taking longer to come to market than initially predicted by industry insiders, as a New York Times article highlighted this week. Indeed, it turns out that having a complex, interconnected set of cameras, sensors, lidar, and software safely navigate a vehicle through busy streets is a lot harder than we thought it would be.
What may not be as hard, though, is navigating the friendly—and relatively empty—skies. Google Ventures is betting on it, anyway: the venture capital investment arm of the search giant just co-led a $25 million funding round for Merlin Labs , a developer of autonomous flight technology that’s aiming to create a “ truly autonomous digital pilot.
” “Truly autonomous” means there’s not a human involved in flying the plane, in the air nor on the ground (as opposed to an onboard pilot helping out or a remote pilot guiding the plane from afar). As you may be aware, commercial flights are already partially autonomous; pilots handle the takeoff, but for much of the time thereafter, planes can be on autopilot.
 Sensors on the plane continuously monitor its movement and send data to its onboard computer, which is programmed with its flight plan. A lot of autopilot systems are even capable of safely and smoothly landing planes.
Moving to full autonomy, then, doesn’t require starting from scratch nor coming up with brand-new technology. And tapping into the national air traffic control network will make autonomous flight a lot easier, too—as Merlin Labs CEO Matt George told The Verge , “The reason that autonomy up in the air is so much easier is that you have complete vision, at least in the United States, of everything that’s up in the sky, with ground-based radar.” According to Merlin’s website , they’ve completed hundreds of missions from takeoff to touchdown out of their facility at the Mojave Air & Space Port in southern California, performed thousands of simulated test hours, and integrated their platform into four different aircraft types, including complex multi-engine aircraft.
On top of its new cash infusion, Merlin announced a deal this week with aviation services contractor Dynamic Aviation to provide autonomous flight systems for 55 of its planes, and has already started doing test flights. The startup is also working with the US Air Force to make large cargo planes autonomous.
One potentially big hurdle Merlin will have to clear is getting approval from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for its software to fly planes sans pilots. Besides the inherent difficulty of getting clearance from a government agency, the FAA doesn’t actually have a certification for autonomous systems that fly fixed-wing aircraft. As reported by Fast Company , the only country in the world where there is such a certification is New Zealand—where Merlin has a wholly-owned subsidiary, not coincidentally.
It remains to be seen how the regulatory process will unfold, but in most other regards, Merlin seems to be in a great position to take its tech to the skies; provided pilotless flying doesn’t also turn out to be harder than we thought, we’ll likely be looking up at autonomous planes (and maybe even riding in them, though this thought still seems pretty terrifying) before we’re cruising the highways in autonomous cars.
Image Credit: Merlin Labs Tags Automation Tech Transportation RELATED Why Google and Bing’s Embrace of Generative AI Could Upend the SEO Industry October 29, 2023 Tens of Thousands of People Can Now Order a Waymo Robotaxi Anywhere in San Francisco October 11, 2023 Agility’s New Factory Can Crank Out 10,000 Humanoid Robots a Year September 20, 2023 latest Like Humans, This Breakthrough AI Makes Concepts Out of the Words It Learns October 31, 2023 Why Google and Bing’s Embrace of Generative AI Could Upend the SEO Industry October 29, 2023 This Week’s Awesome Tech Stories From Around the Web (Through October 28) October 28, 2023 featured Carl Sagan Detected Life on Earth 30 Years Ago—Here’s Why His Experiment Still Matters Today October 26, 2023 Singularity Hub News and Insights from Singularity Group Singularity labs A 360 Singularity Hub About Creative Commons Pitch Us Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Singularity Group About Executive Program Custom Programs Podcasts Insights Blog Stay connected Facebook Instagram RSS Twitter Youtube Get the latest news from Singularity Hub! Sign Up Copyright © Singularity Group. All rights reserved.
