old id = 1822
Programmed exosome fusion for energy generation in living cells | Nature Catalysis
2021
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41929-021-00669-z

Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript.
Advertisement View all journals Search Log in Explore content About the journal Publish with us Sign up for alerts RSS feed nature nature catalysis articles article Download PDF Article Published: 13 September 2021 Programmed exosome fusion for energy generation in living cells Sumit Kumar ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-4979-7677 1 , 2 , Mamata Karmacharya 1 , 3 , Issac J. Michael 1 , 2 , Yongjun Choi ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-3814-3643 1 , 2 , Junyoung Kim 1 , 2 , InUn Kim 1 & … Yoon-Kyoung Cho ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0001-6423-1834 1 , 2 Show authors Nature Catalysis volume 4 , pages 763–774 ( 2021 ) Cite this article 7552 Accesses 15 Citations 81 Altmetric Metrics details Subjects Biocatalysis Biomimetic synthesis Cancer microenvironment Cell delivery Nanoparticles Abstract Biological membrane-enclosed organelles are fascinating examples of spatially confined nanoreactors for biocatalytic transformations such as cascade reactions involving multiple enzymes; however, the fabrication of their synthetic mimics remains a considerable challenge. Here we demonstrate supramolecular chemistry-based bridging of two membranes leading to controlled fusion of exosomes that act as nanoreactors for effective biocatalytic cascades, with prolonged functionality inside of living cells. Exosome membrane proteins were chemically engineered with a catechol moiety to drive fusion by supramolecular complexation to bridge the membranes. This strategy successfully encapsulated multiple enzymes and assembled the minimal electron transport chain in the plasma membrane, leading to tuneable, enhanced catalytic cascade activity capable of ATP synthesis inside of tissue spheroids. This nanoreactor was functional for many hours after uptake into living cells, showed successful penetration into tissue spheroids and repaired the damaged region by supplying ATP, all of which represent an advance in the mimicking of nature’s own organelles.
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF Main Complex biochemical reaction networks occur in cellular microenvironments in which many enzymes work concurrently to modulate chemical reactions that are crucial for metabolism and cell functions 1 , 2 , 3.
 To perform such parallel cascade reactions, cells adopt the elegant strategy of biocompartmentalization, where multiple enzymes are spatially confined in nanoreactors 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10.
 Artificial organelles are emerging as an attractive platform to mimic this compartmentalized enzyme regulatory machinery 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15.
 Many advances have been made towards developing organelle-like systems based on liposomes and polymersomes, and demonstrating biological functions for them 16 , 17 , 18.
 In bottom-up synthetic biology, much effort has been focused on mimicking these compartmentalized nanoreactors, not only to understand cellular metabolism and high-order complexity, but also to design customized biomimetic nanofactories. These have high potential in applications ranging from production of high-value biomolecules and pharmaceuticals to that of therapeutic delivery vehicles and diagnostic applications 19 , 20.
 Furthermore, such synthetic organelles can compensate for the cellular dysfunction associated with pathological conditions and be used to develop next generation therapeutics 21 , 22.
 However, their applications to living cells and tissues still remains a considerable challenge owing to the limitations in terms of delivery, cellular uptake, stability, biocompatibility and biodegradability of the synthetic materials 12 , 16.
Instead of adopting a bottom-up approach, researchers are now looking towards nature for inspiration, taking design cues directly from biological systems 23 , 24.
 Exosomes—tiny membrane vesicles (30–200 nm in size)—function as mediators of intercellular signalling and as potential sources for diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic agents 25 , 26 , 27.
 Biological membrane-based compartments serve as physical and chemical barriers that prevent uncontrolled diffusion of molecular components 28 , 29 , 30 , 31 , 32.
 Synthetic membrane-based cellular compartments could encapsulate multiple reagents, precisely controlling the mixing and diffusion of reactants during chemical transformations 33 , 34 , 35 , 36.
Here we used exosomes as natural compartments that allows encapsulation of multiple exogenous reagents to facilitate enzymatic reaction within the cell. Using a droplet microfluidic device generating cell-sized droplet microreactors, we demonstrated supramolecular chemistry-based fusion of a few exosomes without aggregation. This controlled fusion of exosomes preloaded with different enzymes enabled the generation of multienzyme cascade reaction in the fused exosome nanoreactors, which lead us to develop artificial exosomes that can supply adenosine triphosphate (ATP) into deep tissue spheroids.
Results Chemically triggered exosome fusion Inside cell-sized droplets, the inner compartments, which consist of catechol-engineered exosomes (CExs), respond to metal ions through supramolecular complex formation between the plasma membranes, leading to fusion (Fig.
1a ). A droplet-based microfluidic device was used to perform high-throughput generation of monodisperse cell-sized droplets with average diameters of 10.7 µm (641 fl per droplet) for precise control of the CEx concentration required for fusion (Fig.
1b and Supplementary Video 1 ). At the optimum CEx concentrations range of ~3–7 × 10 9 particles per millilitre, the Poisson distribution predicted that >80% of droplets contain ~2–6 CExs per droplet (Supplementary Fig.
1 ) 37.
 Due to the limiting amount of CEx and fast mixing, this femtolitre-scale droplet reactor could produce aggregation-free supramolecular complexation.
a , A schematic representation of metal-triggered exosome fusion: the metal ion is locked into a supramolecular complex with the catechol-modified plasma membrane, bringing the exosomes into close proximity and enabling fusion. Multiple reactants were thus encapsulated together to promote mixing inside of the FEx.
b , The microfluidic device designed for generating water-in-oil droplet reactors at the flow-focusing junction, where two aqueous phases (CEx and metal salt) met and were delivered into the oil stream (surfactant PFPE-PEG in FC-40) for breaking into droplets.
c , Physiochemical characterization using TEM: (I) CEx (core diameter = 115 ± 26 nm); (II) FEx (core diameter = 247 ± 33 nm) (ten data points, n = 64 TEM images).
d , Dynamic light scattering: size distribution of CEx (CEx-1 = 121 ± 8 nm; CEx-2 = 123 ± 5 nm) and FEx (265 ± 14 nm).
D H , hydrodynamic diameter. Data represent mean ± s.d.; n = 5 independent fusion batches; a two-tailed unpaired Student’s t -test was used for comparing two groups.
e , A dark-field microscopy (DFM) study of fusion: (I) TEM analysis of Au–CEx before (left) and after fusion (right); (II) representative DFM images showing the time-course of fusion.
f , Monitoring CEx fusion by cobalt–calcein assay; calcein fluorescence ( λ ex = 480 nm and λ em = 510 nm) versus time (0–10 min) with/without metal. Data represent mean ± s.d.; n = 3 independent fusion batches.
g , Fusion percent versus different metal ions; control (C, grey) shows no mixing of contents. Data represent mean ± s.d.; n = 3 independent fusion batches; two-tailed unpaired Student’s t -test was used for comparing two groups.
Full size image Catechol-engineered anti-CD9 antibodies were incubated with MCF-10A human breast epithelial cell-derived exosomes to prepare CExs. The catechol functionalization did not induce any considerable change in size (30–200 nm), morphology or the surface proteins, but the zeta potential was changed (Extended Data Fig.
1 ). Inside the microfluidic device, two aqueous phases—with one phase containing CEx suspensions, CExs containing ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) (CEx-1) and calcein–Co 2+ complexes (CEx-2) in MOPS buffer, and the second phase containing FeCl 3 ·6H 2 O—met at the flow-focusing junction and were delivered into the oil stream to break up into uniform droplets (Supplementary Video 1 ). The presence of the catechol–Fe 3+ complex was visible even to the naked eye and was also characterized by ultraviolet–visible spectroscopy (Supplementary Fig.
2a,b ). The change in morphology and increase in size (approximately twofold) during exosomal membrane fusion (Fig.
1c,d and Extended Data Fig.
1a,b ) was attributed to the bridging of CExs through Fe 3+ coordination, which was employed as a trigger for the synthesis of fused exosomes (FEx) and controlled via the metal salt concentration (Supplementary Fig.
2c,d ). We functionalized plasmonic nanoparticles on CExs (Au–CEx) to visualize fusion-associated membrane mixing by dark-field microscopy (DFM; Fig.
1e ). When distant from each other, Au–CEx scattered green light with low intensity, but their scattering intensity increased as they started coming closer for membrane fusion and the colour changed to a bright orange due to plasmonic resonance. Temporal resolution was useful to capture the fusion events and the formation of intermediate products. Dark-field microscopy images were acquired at intervals of 30 s until one round of fusion was finished, when the average RGB value increased by approximately threefold after 10 min (Supplementary Fig.
2e,f ). The system was prone to aggregation in bulk reactions (Supplementary Fig.
3a,b ). Furthermore, other exosomal markers (tetraspanin CD9, CD81 and CD63) were successfully utilized for fusion (Supplementary Fig.
3c ) and the protocol was generalized for exosomes that originate from different cells (MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7; Supplementary Fig.
3d ).
The mixing of the contents inside of the FEx was then demonstrated using the calcein–Co 2+ assay after separately fusing CEx-1 and CEx-2. Plotting fluorescent intensity versus time showed that the signals increased by around tenfold after fusion and got saturated in less than 10 min. This confirmed the mixing of the contents, as EDTA preferentially bound to Co 2+ , leaving calcein free to fluoresce (Fig.
1f ). Furthermore, the fusion percentages for different metals indicated that Fe 3+ , Al 3+ and Zn 2+ fused more effectively than Ti 4+ and Ce 3+ (Fig.
1g ). Furthermore, we monitored fusion-based membrane mixing and content mixing using a previously described fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET)-based assay 38 , 39.
 The fluorescent donor CEx—containing the FRET pair of nitrobenzoxadiazole (NBD) and rhodamine-labelled lipids—gets diluted in the membrane of non-fluorescent acceptor CEx after fusion (Fig.
2a ). Due to an increase in the distance between the NBD and rhodamine dyes, their FRET efficiency decreases and the NBD fluorescence intensity increases by up to 33.4 ± 1.8% after 1 h in the presence of metal ion; however, without the addition of metal ion, the NBD fluorescence intensity was not changed significantly (Fig.
2b ). Furthermore, we confirmed the mixing of exosome content during fusion of CEx by incorporating TbCl 3 and dipicoloinic acid (DPA) separately to form the fluorescent Tb 3+ –DPA complex on fusion (Fig.
2c ). The fluorescence intensity of the complex increased to ~36 ± 0.7% after the addition of metal ions, whereas the change was minimal without them (Fig.
2d ). Altogether, these results clearly demonstrate exosome fusion.
a , A schematic representation of a FRET-based lipid mixing assay for investigating exosome fusion. The average distance between the FRET-pair donor (green) and acceptor (red) lipid probe increases following metal ion-based fusion of a labelled and unlabelled catechol-integrated membrane, resulting in decreased efficiency of FRET (represented by straight black arrow). PE, phosphoethanolamine; PS, phosphatidylserine.
b , Nitrobenzoxadiazole fluorescence before and 1 h after mixing; the control (without iron) shows no mixing of the contents. Data represent mean ± s.d.; n = 3 independent fusion experiments; a two-tailed unpaired Student’s t -test was used for comparing two groups.
c , A schematic representation of the DPA/terbium content-mixing assay for investigating exosome fusion. During exosome fusion, the fluorescence intensity of Tb 3+ –DPA complex formation was monitored and represented as fusion mixing as the complex was formed due to the mixing of the content of exosomes.
d , Fusion mixing at different time points (0 to 30 min); control (without iron) showed no mixing of the contents. Data represent mean ± s.d.; n = 3 independent fusion experiments.
Full size image Multienzyme cascade in fused exosomes We constructed a two-enzyme-loaded FEx (FEx-GOx-HRP) by fusing a glucose oxidase-encapsulated CEx (CEx-GOx, GOx loading efficiency: 47 ± 3.4%) and a horseradish peroxidase-encapsulated CEx (CEx-HRP, HRP loading efficiency: 56 ± 2.1%), where the GOx and HRP present inside the CEx retained ~92.4% and 90.2% of their original activity, respectively (Supplementary Fig.
4a,b ). High-resolution confocal laser-scanning fluorescence microscopy (CLSM) characterized the enzyme encapsulation by individual CExs (fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-GOx, rhodamine B-HRP), resulting in a merged image of FEx-GOx-HRP with a Pearson’s correlation coefficient (PCC) of 0.64 ± 0.07, indicating that the two enzymes were well confined inside of the FEx nanoreactor after membrane fusion (Supplementary Fig.
4c–f ).
We next monitored the enzyme activities and kinetics of the FEx-GOx-HRP nanoreactors, where the aerobic oxidation of glucose by GOx yielded H 2 O 2 and gluconic acid, and the H 2 O 2 generated in the proximity of HRP acted as its substrate. This allowed HRP to catalyse the oxidation of Amplex Red to the fluorescent product, resorufin (Fig.
3a ). The CLSM images of the droplets filled with FEx-GOx-HRP nanoreactors showed the presence of enzymes, FITC-GOx and rhodamine B-HRP (Fig.
3b ). The values of the Michaelis–Menten constant ( K M ) of the FEx-GOx-HRP nanoreactors showed a ~16-fold decrease compared with those of the homogenous mixture of CEx-GOx and CEx-HRP, and the maximum reaction rate ( V max ) for the FEx-GOx-HRP nanoreactors showed an approximately threefold increase (Fig.
3c–f and Supplementary Fig.
5a ). The control experiments indicated that the single enzymes containing CEx could not trigger the biocatalytic cascade. To exclude the possible contribution of surface adsorption to the catalytic cascade in CEx, CEx-GOxs were treated with a high concentration of HRP and washed, resulting in non-significant difference in catalytic enhancement. We also confirmed the enzymes’s storage stability, thermal stability and recyclability inside of the FEx nanoreactor (Supplementary Fig.
5c–e ). The biocatalytic cascade by FEx-GOx-HRP was not affected after treatment with pronase (proteolytic enzyme), implying that enzymes in solution or adsorbed on the surface of FEx-GOx-HRP were negligible (Extended Data Fig.
2a ). We utilized a size-based enrichment of EVs and washing protocol using lab-on-a-disc platform with six independent nanofiltration units equipped with a 20 nm pore diameter filter, to rule out any possibility of free enzymes in the FEx-GOx-HRP solutions (Extended Data Fig.
2b–e ).
a , A schematic representation of a two-enzyme GOx/HRP cascade encapsulated inside the FEx. The catalytic reaction was initiated by adding glucose, generating H 2 O 2 by aerobic oxidation, which was used to oxidize Amplex Red to generate resorufin.
b , Representative CLSM images of copolymer-stabilized water-in-oil droplets ( λ ex = 488 and 375 nm). RhB, rhodamine B.
c , Representative fluorescence spectra of resorufin generated by biocatalysis in CEx-GOx, CEx-HRP, without iron (CEx-GOx and CEx-HRP) and with iron (FEx-GOx-HRP).
d , Representative fluorescence spectra of resorufin generated by biocatalysis in CEx-HRP, CEx-GOx-HRP and FEx-GOx-HRP at different time points.
e , Fluorescence intensity of resorufin at 563 nm plotted versus different concentrations of glucose.
f , The reaction rate for the nanoreactor versus glucose concentration to calculate kinetic constants by fitting the Michaelis–Menten equation.
g , A schematic representation of three-enzyme catalysis encapsulated in the FEx nanoreactors: in the presence of lactose, β-galactosidase-catalysed hydrolysis yields glucose and galactose. The aerobic GOx-catalysed oxidation of this glucose yields gluconic acid and H 2 O 2 , which catalyses the oxidation of Amplex Red to form resorufin.
h , Representative CLSM images of droplets.
i , The fluorescence intensity of resorufin generated by biocatalysis in CEx-GOx, FEx-GOx-HRP, without iron (CEx-β-gal and FEx-GOx-HRP) and with iron (FEx-β-gal-GOx-HRP) is plotted at different concentrations of lactose (0, 0.025, 0.05, 0.075, 0.10, 0.25, 0.50, 1.00 and 2 mM).
j , Fluorescence intensity of resorufin generated from nanoreactors after adding 0.5 mM lactose plotted against different time points for the three-enzyme cascade.
Full size image A three-enzyme biocatalytic cascade nanoreactor (FEx-β-gal-GOx-HRP) (size 312 ± 21 nm) was subsequently also prepared through the fusion of CEx-β-gal and FEx-GOx-HRP, where β-galactosidase catalysed the hydrolysis of lactose at the first step (Fig.
3g–j and Supplementary Fig.
5b ). The activity of this multienzyme biocatalytic cascade in the confined environment of the FEx nanoreactor was enhanced by around threefold compared with that of the homogeneous mixture.
Intracellular activation of fused exosomes We confirm the internalization of the FEx nanoreactor in MCF-10A cells using CLSM, the increase in uptake in a time-dependent manner and no significant influence of the fusion process on the cellular internalization kinetics (Fig.
4a,b ). The cellular uptake of FEx was found to be comparable with that of liposomes (Supplementary Fig.
6 ). A CLSM-based live-cell experiment (over a 1 h period) on MCF-10A cells for FEx visualized a small extent of endocytosis early at 20 min, which increased at 40 min and 60 min, along with rare co-localization with lysosomes (Extended Data Fig.
3 ). To study the intracellular transport over a longer period (0–24 h), cells were treated with FEx and correlated with early endosomal antigen 1 marker (EEA1) and lysosome-associated membrane glycoprotein 1 (LAMP-1; Extended Data Figs.
4 and 5 ). Fused exosomes started binding to the cell surface at an early stage (EEA1-positive) within 1 h and kept increasing their uptake; FEx also showed enhanced co-localization with EEA1 until 4 h, without any significant increase afterwards. Fused exosomes started co-localizing with LAMP-1 only after 2 h, followed by an increase in lysosomal co-localization until 12 h. The degree of co-localization of FEx with endosomes and lysosomes were quantified by PCC Endosomes-FEx and PCC Lysosomes-FEx , respectively (Extended Data Figs.
4b and 5b ). These results were confirmed by isolating the endosome and lysosome followed by western blotting at different time points (Extended Data Figs.
4c and 5c ). Although endocytosis seemed to be the major uptake pathway for FEx by MCF-10A cells, cellular uptake could occur through other multiple mechanisms 40 , 41 , 42.
 Furthermore, diffusion dynamics of exosome nanoreactors inside of the living cells monitored by high-speed super-resolution CLSM with spatiotemporal resolution showed that both CEx and FEx nanoreactors had subdiffusive motion ( α < 1) with no significant difference in diffusion coefficients (Fig.
4c–e , and Supplementary Videos 2 and 3 ).
a , Cellular integration and intracellular activation of biomimetic FEx-GOx-HRP nanoreactors: CLSM images of the control (human breast epithelial cells MCF-10A), and after treatment with CEx-GOx and FEx-GOx-HRP (Texas Red phalloidin staining for actin, FITC-labelled GOx) for 24 h.
b , A time-dependent study of the MCF-10A control as well as fluorescently labelled CEx-GOx and FEx-GOx-HRP for cellular internalization, where the percentage of exosome uptake (fluorescence intensity, λ ex = 488 nm, green) was plotted against time. Data represent mean ± s.d.; n = 3 independent experiments; a two-tailed unpaired Student’s t -test was used for comparing two groups.
c , Representative live cell CLSM tracking images of FEx-GOx-HRP (FITC-labelled GOx) and CEx-GOx (FITC-labelled GOx) after cellular uptake by MCF-10A.
d , Diffusion dynamics quantified in terms of the mean square displacement (MSD) of particle tracking trajectory as a function of time for CEx-GOx and FEx-GOx-HRP nanoreactors inside the cells. The black line is a guide to the eye suggesting that the slope is 1.
τ , time lag. The trajectories of n = 1136 CEx-GOx and n = 1201 FEx-GOx-HRP nanoreactors were examined over nine different regions of interest from n = 2 independent experiments.
e , From each individual fitted MSD curve, the exponent α and diffusion coefficient ( D ) were plotted to the two-dimensional density plot. The colour code represents the local density of trajectories normalized between 0 (purple) and 1 (red).
f , Representative live cell imaging for realtime monitoring of the fluorescent product resorufin as the result of the catalytic reaction of two-enzyme cascade operation inside the FEx-GOx-HRP nanoreactor.
Full size image We demonstrated the intracellular functioning of the FEx by monitoring the production of resorufin, generated by a two-enzyme operation (Fig.
4f and Supplementary Fig.
7 ). High-resolution CLSM images showed the accumulation of fluorescent products as clusters inside of the cells, which increased in size over time.
We also validated the integrity of nanoreactors and non-leakage of encapsulated enzymes from FEx after cellular uptake for a longer period (0–24 h), by the co-localization of the contents inside of FEx (FITC-GOx and rhodamine B-HRP) after cellular uptake, demonstrating non-significant leakage (Extended Data Fig.
6a,b ). We studied the motility of the FEx nanoreactor inside living cells after 48 h of incubation and observed their intracellular movements (Extended Data Fig.
6c ). To study the final fate of the FExs inside of the cells at longer timescales, we performed the co-localization study of FEx with endosomal and lysosomal markers after 48 h (Extended Data Fig.
6d ). A considerable amount of FEx was also observed in the cells that neither overlapped with EEA1 nor LAMP-1; however, the overall localization of FEx with EEA1 was slightly higher than with LAMP-1, indicating the endosomal escape of FEx. The presence of gold-immunolablled FEx in cytosol inside MCF-10A cells after 48 h was verified by biological transmission electron microscopy (TEM) experiments (Extended Data Fig.
6e ).
Bioorthogonal catalysis in fused exosomes To evaluate the compartmentalized catalysis capabilities of our platform, we selected palladium-catalysed deallylation as a model biorthogonal reaction to generate the fluorescence from an allylcarbamate caged fluorophore inside of the cells (Extended Data Fig.
7a ) 43.
 First, we performed the fusion between palladium nanoparticles-loaded exosomes (CEx-Pd) and bis-allyloxycarbonyl-protected rhodamine ( pro Rho)-loaded exosomes (CEx- pro Rho) to prepare the fused exosomes (FEx-Pd- pro Rho). The presence of palladium nanoparticles inside of FEx-Pd- pro Rho was confirmed by high-resolution TEM (Extended Data Fig.
7b ) and quantified by inductively coupled plasma–mass-spectrometry. The catalytic property of the nanoreactor was evaluated by the formation of the fluorescent product rhodamine, monitored by a fluorimeter. The fluorescence intensity of reaction solutions increased with time at 527 nm in case of FEx-Pd- pro Rho, whereas CEx- pro Rho showed almost no change (Extended Data Fig.
7c,d ). Next, FEx-Pd- pro Rho nanoreactors (30 µg ml –1 ) were incubated with MCF-10A cells at 37 °C for 24 h to perform intracellular catalytic experiments. Representative CLSM images from MCF-10A cells showed green fluorescence due to the catalytic conversion of pro Rho to fluorescent rhodamine, whereas no fluorescence signal was detected in a control experiment with CEx (Extended Data Fig.
7e ). Flow cytometric analysis confirmed that the fluorescence intensity signals were two orders of magnitude higher after the reaction (Extended Data Fig.
7f ). Furthermore, to broaden the application, we performed the fusion between CEx-Pd and masked inert therapeutic molecule (5-fluoro-1-propargyl uracil ( pro FU))-loaded CEx for the biorthogonal demasking of anticancer drug 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) (Extended Data Fig.
7g ). To confirm the intracellular functioning/demasking, we performed cytotoxic studies with commercial live/dead cell assay on MCF-10A cells after incubation with FEx-Pd- pro FU for 24 h. As shown in Extended Data Fig.
7h , following incubation with FEx-Pd- pro FU, cell viability dropped to ~23%, whereas ~91% cells survived in the case of CEx.
Energy generation in fused exosomes Multienzyme cascade reactions producing bioenergy (that is, ATP) have recently gained special attention in the field of synthetic protobiology 43 , 44.
 In this study, we prepared ATPsynthase-reconstituted CEx-GOx (ATPsyn-CEx-GOx) and bo 3 oxidase-reconstituted CEx-HRP ( bo 3 oxi-CEx-HRP) to form ATPsyn-bo 3 oxi-FEx-GOx-HRP (FEx-1) nanoreactors as energy pills for cells (Fig.
5a ). First, the internal production of protons inside the nanoreactor was confirmed by measuring the fluorescence signal of a pH-sensing indicator, hydroxypyrene-1,3,6-trisulphonic acid (HPTS) (Supplementary Fig.
8 ). On increasing the concentration of glucose (0–300 nM), acidification (ΔpH of –0.4) inside the nanoreactors was observed for FEx-GOx-HRP and FEx-1 (Fig.
5b ). However, the transmembrane pH gradient was too low to activate ATPsynthase 44.
 In the next set of experiments, activation of this assembled electron transport chain of the FEx-1 membrane was triggered by addition of reduced dithiothreitol (DTT), which reduced coenzyme Q1 to make it available for bo 3 oxidase 30.
 Oxidation of reduced Q 1 (Q 1 H) by bo 3 oxidase resulted in pumping of protons into each post-fusion vesicle resulting in ΔpH of –1.6 after 90 min, building up enough proton motive force (PMF) to drive ATP synthesis (Fig.
5c ). This activity of the bo 3 oxidase proton pump demonstrated the full functionality of the reconstituted proteins on the fused exosome nanoreactors.
a , A schematic representation of the construction of energy modules by fusion of ATPsyn-CEx-GOx and bo 3 oxi-CEx-HRP.
b , The pH gradient (–ΔpH) of FEx-1 nanoreactor vesicles versus glucose concentrations determined by monitoring the change in the relative fluorescence ratio ( I 458 / I 404 ) of HPTS. Data represent mean ± s.d. of n = 3 independent experiments.
c , The pH gradient of FEx-1 nanoreactors versus time. Data represent mean ± s.d. of n = 3 independent experiments.
d , Time-dependent ATP production after uptake of FEx-1 nanoreactors. Data represent mean ± s.d. of n = 3 independent experiments.
e , ATP% in MCF-10A cells after FEx-1 uptake. Hypoxia was induced by addition of tert -butyl hydrogen peroxide (TBHP, 20 µM, 3 h); 1% Triton X-100 was taken as the negative control. Data represent mean ± s.d. of n = 5 independent experiments; a two-tailed unpaired Student’s t -test was used to compare two groups.
f , After the treatment of cells with different concentrations of FEx-1 nanoreactors (43, 86 and 137 µg ml –1 ), intracellular ROS levels were quantified using dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate ( λ ex = 485 nm, λ em = 535 nm); glutathione (50 µM) and paraquat (50 µM) were taken as negative and positive controls, respectively. Data represent mean ± s.d. of n = 3 independent experiments; a two-tailed unpaired Student’s t -test was used to compare two groups.
Full size image During the course of the reaction, the synthesized ATP was detected by the luciferin–luciferase system, wherein conversion of the synthesized ATP into pyrophosphate and adenosine monophosphate by luciferase was accompanied by light emission (Extended Data Fig.
8a,b ). Figure 5d shows the relatively rapid increase in ATP production with the addition of glucose–DTT (1.31 ± 0.05 ATP µmol mg – 1 ) compared with ATP production with the addition of only glucose or DTT. This is comparable with the findings of earlier studies using synthetic materials for compartmentalization 23 , 26.
 By contrast, ATP production was hardly detected in the absence of glucose and DTT, which confirmed that ATP production in this hybrid system occurred only in the presence of all of the necessary components. To explore the possibility of the direct loading of individual components (GOx, HRP, ATPsynthase and bo 3 oxidase) into the exosomes, we performed control experiments with different conditions for ATP generation (Extended Data Fig.
8e,f ). These results concluded that for proper functioning of the enzyme kinetics, our fusion strategy has advantages over direct loading.
We next compared the intracellular ATP activity (%) after the uptake of the FEx-1 nanoreactors under hypoxic conditions; we found an approximately twofold (81.2 ± 5.2%) increase after adding glucose–DTT (Fig.
5e ). Adenosine triphosphate production directly influences the amount of reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels in cellular mitochondria 45.
 To demonstrate the intracellular functioning of the FEx-1 nanoreactor as a ROS scavenger, we treated cells with different doses of FEx-1 and measured the intracellular ROS levels using a ROS-sensitive, fluorescent probe (Extended Data Fig.
8c,d ). As shown in Fig.
5f , ROS% decreased by around twofold after glucose–DTT treatment. Similarly, DTT treatment also resulted in a decrease in ROS% on increasing the nanoreactor concentration; however, no significant change in ROS% was observed with the addition of glucose only. This result demonstrates that FEx-1 nanoreactors could reduce oxidative stress in hypoxic cells.
Infiltration of fused exosomes in spheroids To check whether the exogenous addition of FEx-1 nanoreactors made of all-natural ingredients could eliminate the overwhelming oxidative stress due to hypoxia in solid tissues, we investigated multicellular spheroids, which closely resemble in vivo tissue containing a hypoxic core (Fig.
6a ). The reconstructed three-dimensional CLSM images revealed layers of tightly packed cells in the spheroids with efficient penetration and uniform dispersion of the FEx-1 and CEx-HRP nanoreactors in the core of the spheroids. This could be attributed to their intrinsic property of deformable cytoskeleton, which is highly enriched with surface proteins that are involved in motility, cell adhesion, invasion, trafficking and membrane fusion; meanwhile, the free enzyme, rhodamine B-labelled HRP, could not penetrate the spheroids (Fig.
6b ). The side view of the top, middle and bottom sections (200 × 100 × 50 µm 3 ) of the spheroid show that the FEx-1 nanoreactor infiltrated into the core part of the spheroid, whereas the free enzyme control showed weak penetration only at the edge of the spheroids. The time-course measurement of the fluorescence intensity of each section during the 48 h observation period revealed a rapid uptake of FEx-1 that reached a plateau after 24 h for all regions from the periphery to the core of the spheroid (Fig.
6c,d ).
a , A schematic for FEx-1 penetration into spheroids and controlling the cellular redox under hypoxic conditions via production of ATP.
b , Representative merged CLSM images of spheroids showing uptake of the FEx-1 nanoreactor (rhodamine B-labelled), CEx and HRP after phalloidin-FITC staining for actin and DAPI staining to label nuclei. A representative side view of different sections (200 × 100 × 50 µm 3 ) of spheroids after uptake of FEx-1 nanoreactors to assess the penetration of FEx-1 (rhodamine B-labelled) nanoreactors and control (rhodamine B-labelled HRP) is shown.
c , The fluorescence intensity ( λ ex = 561 nm) over time in three different regions of the spheroids. Data represent mean ± s.d. of n = 3 independent experiments.
d , Representative CLSM images of MCF-10A spheroids to assess the presence of FEx-1 (rhodamine B-labelled) nanoreactors and control (rhodamine B-labelled HRP) inside spheroids. A magnified image (depth ≈ 500 µm) was reconstructed to obtain the three-dimensional images of the middle section of the spheroids by stacking 110 images along the z -axis, leading to a total range of 100 µm. The spheroids were stained with phalloidin-FITC to label actin.
e , ATP activity after 24 h incubation of FEx-1 nanoreactors with spheroids. Data represent mean ± s.d. of n = 5 independent experiments; a two-tailed unpaired Student’s t -test was used to compare two groups.
f , Cell viability assay of spheroids using calcein-AM ( λ ex = 490 nm and λ em = 520 nm; AM, acetoxymethyl). Data represent mean ± s.d. of n = 3 independent experiments; a two-tailed unpaired Student’s t -test was used to compare two groups.
g , The ROS levels of spheroids after treatment with FEx-1 nanoreactors determined using a ROS assay kit (DCF-DA, λ ex = 485 nm and λ em = 535 nm). Data represent mean ± s.d. of n = 3 independent experiments; a two-tailed unpaired Student’s t -test was used to compare two groups.
Full size image Taking advantage of the effective tissue-infiltrating capability of natural exosomes, we treated the spheroid with the FEx-1 nanoreactor. Under the hypoxic condition, the ATP activity and cell viability decreased by about 13-fold and 6-fold, respectively (Fig.
6e,f ); however, the addition of glucose–DTT to the FEx-1 nanoreactor-internalized spheroid returned the ATP activity and cell viability back to the levels for the positive control without hypoxia: 81.1 ± 5.9% and 93.7 ± 4.5%, respectively. Furthermore, we observed an approximately twofold decrease in total ROS% in the spheroids following treatment with the FEx-1 nanoreactors and glucose–DTT (Fig.
6g ).
Taken together, our results highlight the potential of these exosomes as nanoreactors in regulating the metabolic activity of cells inside spheroids, and in attenuating cell damage due to hypoxia observed in various disease conditions. A major advantage of these exosome nanoreactors is that membrane proteins serve as permeable shells, facilitating the flow of chemical reagents and preventing the leaching of loaded enzymes for better biocatalytic performance, thus enhancing their penetration into deep tumours 46 , 47.
Conclusion Our results describe an approach to assemble a multienzyme cascade to construct an artificial organelle that can communicate effectively within the living system. By bridging nature’s catalytic repertoire with synthetic chemistry, we can overcome limitations of poor biocompatibility, poor stability, diffusional resistance and limited membrane permeability. An interesting application of our exosome nanoreactors could be the generation of a proton gradient capable of synthesizing ATP inside of living organisms by assembling a minimal electron transport chain. To the best of our knowledge, there are no studies reporting this ability related to exosome fusion. Generation of ATP within diseased tissues could be useful in drug delivery and cancer diagnosis, or for the use of exosomes as nanoreactors. Further studies are warranted to explore the general value of catechol-tethering in enclosing biomolecules within small volumes to regulate tissue aging and other disease conditions in animal models. Furthermore, this approach could be used for bridging tissues or living cells to address important challenges in bottom-up synthetic biology and bioinspired engineering. Future studies may include assessing immunogenicity and toxicity in vivo, investigating blood circulation time and biodistribution, and studying penetration through physiological barriers in the body or solid tumours for in vivo applications and clinical translations.
Methods Chemically controlled fusion of CEx inside a microfluidic chip Water-in-oil droplets were generated at the flow-focusing junction inside a microfluidic chip. One dispersed aqueous phase contained the exosomes (CEx) (~3–7 × 10 9 particles per millilitre) and the other phase contained the metal salt, FeCl 3 ·6H 2 O (40 ng ml – 1 ). The oil phase contained FC-40 with surfactant (PFPE-PEG). A microfluidic control system (Fluigent) was used and droplets with diameter of ~10 µm was generated at 480–500 mbar of 300 µl min – 1 of the oil phase and 270–282 mbar of the salt solution, while the exosome phase was held at 130 µl min – 1 and 270–282 mbar. This emulsion was collected in an Eppendorf tube and analysed under an inverted microscope (IX71, Olympus).
DFM of CD63-AuNP-functionalized CEx Pre-cleaned glass coverslips and clean glass slides were treated with aqueous solution for 10 s, washed with deionized water and dried under N 2.
 Thereafter, 10 µl of the sample (CEx suspension from the microfluidic device) was loaded onto an 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane (APTS)-treated glass slide and sandwiched between a thinner glass slide. The time-course of the fusion process was monitored using an Olympus IX73 inverted microscope equipped with a high numerical aperture (NA = 1.2–1.4), A water condenser (Olympus U-DCW) and a ×60 oil-immersion objective (0.65 NA). For DFM, the samples were illuminated with a 100 W tungsten lamp and images were recorded with an Olympus DP22 digital camera. During the experiment, images were acquired using Olympus Cell Sens Dimension software (v.1.18) with 200 ms exposure, sensitivity ISO 200, resolution of 1,920 × 1,440 and gain: white balance; R = 1.75, G = 1.1 and B = 1.61 (ref.
24 ). To quantify overall fusion over time, we used the same methodology described in previous reports to calculate the average RGB intensity values for the spots (red + green + blue)/3 using the Point tool in ImageJ software 48.
Enzyme cascade in the FEx nanoreactor The enzyme encapsulation efficiency of the FEx nanoreactor was determined by fluorescent spectrophotometry using calibration curves for the different dye-labelled enzymes. The rate of the enzyme biocatalytic cascade reaction was monitored by following the changes in the fluorescence spectra of resorufin at 563 nm by using a microplate reader (TECAN infinite M200 Pro). To determine the V max and K M of the FEx nanoreactor, the standard Michaelis−Menten enzyme kinetics equation was used to fit the data using GraphPad Prism v.8.0.1 (refs.
14 , 17 , 24 ).
Endosome and lysosome isolation to study cellular uptake of FEx nanoreactors The MCF-10A human breast epithelial cells (1 × 10 5 cells) were seeded on the culture plates and incubated at 37 °C and 5% CO 2 in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle medium supplemented with 5% horse serum, 20 ng ml – 1 epidermal growth factor, 0.5 mg ml – 1 hydrocortisone, 10 µg ml – 1 insulin and 1% antibiotic/antimycotic (100 U ml – 1 penicillin and 100 mg ml – 1 streptomycin). After 24 h incubation, the supernatant was removed and replaced with 10 ml of fresh media containing the suspension of FEx nanoreactor (120 µg ml – 1 ). The cells were incubated with the nanoreactors for different time points to allow their uptake by the cells, after which the cells were washed with PBS. About 25–30 × 10 6 MCF-10A cells were harvested by centrifugation at 500–600 × g for 5 min. The cell pellet was washed with cold PBS and supernatant was completely removed. Endosomal/lysosomal fraction was isolated using the minute endosome/lysosome isolation kit according to the manufacturer’s instructions, and analysed with SDS–PAGE electrophoresis and western blotting.
SDS and western blotting for cellular uptake of FEx nanoreactors Isolated endosome and lysosome from different time frame were quantified using bicinchoninic acid (BCA) assay (Pierce BCA Protein Assay Kit, Thermo Fisher Scientific); 20 µg of isolated endosome and lysosome were loaded with 6 µl of loading buffer and heated at 95 °C for 15 min. Both the sample from different time frame were resolved on 10% SDS–polyacrylamide gel (Pierce) to run the electrophoresis in Mini-Protean TGX electrophoresis apparatus (Bio-rad). The proteins were run in the stacking gel for 30 min at 100 V and then increased to 110 V once passed the stacking gel, which was run for 90 min in resolving gel. At the time of running the gel, polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) membrane was soaked into the 100% methanol to remove its hydrophobicity character. The blotting paper and sponges were soaked in the transfer buffer. After the completion of SDS, the gel was stacked between the PVDF membrane and blotting paper. It was run in transfer buffer for 2 h at 100 V to transfer the protein from gel to the PVDF membrane. After 2 h, the membrane was incubated in blocking buffer (5% skimmed milk in tris buffer saline and Tween 20) at room temperature for 1 h. Blocking buffer helps to minimize the unspecific binding of antibodies. The buffer was poured off, followed by washing the membrane with 1X tris buffer saline with 0.1% Tween 20 (TBST) buffer; 10 ml of 1:1000 diluted primary antibodies (EEA1 polyclonal antibody, purified anti-RAB7A, purified anti-human CD107a or LAMP-1 and purified mouse anti-human CD63) in 1X TBST were then added into the membrane and incubated overnight at 4 °C. It was subsequently washed with 1X TBST for 1 h followed by addition of HRP conjugated secondary anti-M IgG antibody diluted 1:3,000 in 5% skimmed milk for 1 h in room temperature. Unbound antibodies were washed using 1X TBST for 1 h. The membrane was then treated with pierce-enhanced chemiluminescence western blotting substrate and visualized in an Azure biosystem c600 detection system using series capture software (2017 version) 24.
Exosome washing using ExoDisc Enzymes (GOx and HRP) loaded exosomes were purified using ExoDisc (LabSpinner), which contains six AAO filters of 13 mm diameter and 20 nm pore size. The ExoDisc was loaded with 1 ml of exosome solution in each chamber and centrifuged at 3,000 r.p.m. for 10 min using a tabletop-sized spinning system. Enzyme-loaded exosome was captured on the membrane filter and free enzyme was passed through it. Captured exosomes on the filter were then washed twice with the 1 ml of PBS by centrifugation at 3,000 r.p.m. for 5 min. The isolated enzyme loaded exosome was eluted in the collection chamber with 200 µl of PBS. Its concentration was then measured using the BCA assay.
Live cell imaging To track the FEx nanoreactors inside the cell, live cell imaging was performed. MCF-10A (1 × 10 5 cells) cells were seeded in fibronectin (20 µg ml –1 ) coated eight-well plate containing phenol-free Mammary Epithelial Cell Growth Basal Medium (MEBM) and incubated overnight at 37 °C. The supernatant was then removed from each well followed by addition of 50 nM of prewarmed LysoTracker Deep Red and 20 µg ml – 1 pHrodo Red dextran with 30 min incubation at 37 °C. Then loading solution was replaced with the phenol-free fresh MEBM media containing FEx-1 nanoreactors (60 µg ml – 1 ) and control cell without FEX nanoreactors treatment. Live cell imaging was performed with Nikon AR1 confocal microscope combined with stage fitted incubator and gas mixer to maintain the temperature and CO 2 concentration. pHrodo Red dextran and LysoTracker Deep Red were used to labelled endosome and lysosomal vacuoles respectively for the co-localization analysis. A LU-NV laser unit of 560 nm (RFP/pHrodo Red dextran) and 647 nm (LysoSensor blue/LysoTracker Deep Red) were used to observe the image independently in respective wavelength at ×60, 1.4 NA and ×100, 1.45 NA oil immersion.
Fixed cell imaging MCF-10A cells (10 5 cells per millilitre) were seeded in fibronectin-coated eight-well plates containing phenol-free MEBM and incubated overnight at 37 °C. The supernatant was then removed from each plate and replaced with 200 µl of fresh medium containing FEx-1 nanoreactors (1,370 µg ml –1 ) except in the control. Media from the well was removed and prewarmed 4% paraformaldehyde was added for 10 min at 37 °C to fix the cells. The plates were washed with PBS twice and 0.1% permeabilization buffer containing Triton X-100 was added to the cells for 10 min at 25 °C. After washing twice with PBS, the cells were blocked using 3% BSA for 45 min. Extra BSA was washed with PBS and CD107a (LAMP-1) monoclonal antibody, Alexa Fluor 647 at 1:100 in 0.1% BSA and EEA1 (E-8) Alexa Fluor 546 was used to labelled the cell at 4 °C overnight. The cells were then washed with PBS and observed in the confocal laser-scanning microscope using a ×60, 1.4 NA and ×100, 1.45 NA oil immersion with a LU-NV laser unit of 638.7 nm (magenta/Alexa Fluor 647) and 560.6 nm (red/Alexa Fluor 546).
FRET-based lipid mixing assay The fusion of exosome mixture was detected through the FRET-based lipid mixing assay using 1,2-dioleoyl- sn -glycero-3-phospho- l -serine- N -(7-nitro-2-1,3-benzoxadiazol-4-yl) (NBD-PS) and Lissamine rhodamine B 1,2-dioleoyl- sn -glycero-3-phoshoethanolamine (rhodamine PE). Two different exosomes (donor CEx-1 and acceptor CEx-2) were prepared using NBD-PS and rhodamine PE; 100 µM donor CEx-1 was labelled with NBD-PS (fluorescence energy donor) and rhodamine PE (acceptor probe) in the equal molar ratio that is 1.5% whereas acceptor CEx-2 was labelled free. Both of the exosomes were mixed in 1:1 ratio and injected into the microfluidic device to accomplish the fusion using FeCl 3 ·6H 2 O (40 ng ml –1 ). On mixing, rhodamine quenched the NBD fluorescence emission. The excitation and emission of the NBD was entirely dependent on the distance between the two fluorophores. As the donor and acceptor exosomes fuse together, it results in the increase of NBD fluorescence intensity that can be measured at excitation/emission of 460/534 nm using spectrophotometer (Tecan M200 Pro). A volume of 10 µl of n-dodecyl β-d-maltoside at 2.5% (w/v) was added in the mixture after 2 h to stop the reaction and maximum NBD fluorescence intensity was measured. Percentage increase in NBD fluorescence was calculated by normalizing the fluorescence curve using the equation ( 1 ): $${\mathrm{NBD}}\,{\mathrm{fluorescence}}\,{\mathrm{increase}}\left( {{{\mathrm{\% }}}} \right) = \frac{{\left[ {{\mathrm{NBD}} - {\mathrm{Min}}\left( {\mathrm{NBD}} \right)} \right]}}{{\left[ {{\mathrm{Max}}\left( {\mathrm{NBD}} \right) - {\mathrm{Min}}\left( {\mathrm{NBD}} \right)} \right]}}$$ where NBD is the fluorescence intensity of NBD at time t , Max (NBD) is the fluorescence intensity of NBD at the end of the reaction, and Min (NBD) is the fluorescence intensity of NBD at t = 0.
DPA/terbium-based content mixing assays Exosome fusion was evaluated by the formation of the Tb 3+ –DPA complex. First, TbCl 3 (2 mM) solution in 15 mM of sodium citrate and 20 mM DPA solution in 150 mM NaCl were prepared and added to exosome solution (200 µl of 90 µg ml –1 ), separately. For the loading of molecules (Tb 3+ in CEx-1, dipicoloinic acid in CEx-2) into exosomes, suspension (exosomes and loading molecules) was cooled down on ice for 30 min and 0.2% saponin solution was added. The mixture was sonicated in capped glass vial for 2 min using a Fisher Scientific FS30D bath sonicator at a frequency of 42 kHz and power of 100 W. After shaking for 20 min at room temperature (25 °C), molecules-loaded exosomes were purified using Vivaspin centrifugal concentrators. To remove the excess molecules, solution was filled in Vivaspin 2 (REF VS0251, polyethersulfone membrane molecular weight cutoffs 300,000 k), and centrifuge at 8,000 × g for 10 min at 4 °C and washed twice. To recover the sample from Vivaspin 2, it was reversed and spin at up to 3,000 × g for 2 min at 4 °C. The recovered exosome solution was diluted in 200 µl of prefiltered PBS and stored either at 4 °C for further use.
We loaded 100 µl of (30 µg ml – 1 ) exosomes with Tb 3+ in CEx-1, and DPA in CEx-2, and injected into the microfluidic device to accomplish their fusion using FeCl 3 ·6H 2 O (40 ng ml – 1 ). Time-dependent fluorescence intensity of the Tb 3+ –DPA complex was measured using spectrophotometer (Tecan M200 Pro); 1 µl of 10% (w/v) Triton X-100 was used at the end to generate the maximum fluorescence intensity by lysing the exosome. The excitation/emission for the Tb 3+ –DPA was 278/490 nm.
Tracking FEx nanoreactors inside live cells To track the fused exosomes in live cells, 137 µg protein ml – 1 FITC-labelled FEx nanoreactors were incubated with cells for 1 h at 37 °C in a 5% CO 2 incubator. After incubation, the suspended FEx nanoreactors were removed by washing three times with cell culture media. A ×100 oil-immersion objective (Apo, NA = 1.46, Zeiss) with a live cell imaging system (Zeiss LSM 880 Airyscan confocal combined with a custom cell incubator) was used and time-lapse images of the diffusing fluorescent particles were recorded using the Airyscan super-resolution mode for 206.19 s (1,000 frames). Particles were determined by intensity thresholding over regions followed by tracking their two-dimensional position, r ( x , y ), over t.
 The MSD of each single trajectory was calculated from the equation ( 2 ): $${{{\mathrm{MSD}}}}\left( \tau \right) = < \left[ {{{{{r}}}}\left( {{{{{t}}}} + \tau } \right) - {{{{r}}}}\left( {{{{t}}}} \right)} \right]^2 > ,\tau = \left( {\mathrm{time}}\,{\mathrm{lag}} \right)$$ Next, the analysed MSD curve of each trajectory was collected from τ = 618 ms to τ = 6,592 ms and fitted to power law form shown in the equation ( 3 ): $${\mathrm{MSD}}\left( \tau \right) = 4D\tau ^\alpha$$ to calculate an exponent α and diffusion coefficient D and those parameters were represented as α – D two-dimensional density plot 49 , 50.
Purification of ATPase from E. coli strain DK8 ATPase was purified as described previously 51.
 Recombinant Escherichia coli (E. coli) was cultured in 500 ml of lysogeny broth medium supplemented with 100 µg ml –1 ampicillin at 37 °C for 4.5 h. Cells were harvested by centrifugation at 7,700 × g for 15 min at 4 °C and stored at –80 °C. Cell pellets were thawed and resuspended in French press buffer (200 mM Tris/HCl, pH 7.77; 100 mM KCl; 5 mM MgCl 2 ; 0.1 mM EDTA and 2.5% glycerol), and then lysed using a French press (16,000 p.s.i. at 4 °C). Centrifugation was performed at 7,700 × g for 15 min at 4 °C to remove unlysed cells, and the supernatant fraction was recentrifuged at 184,000 × g for 1 h. The pellet containing membrane vesicles was solubilized in an extraction buffer (50 mM Tris/HCl, pH 7.5; 100 mM KCl; 40 mM ε-aminocaproic acid; 15 mM p -aminobenzamidine; 5 mM MgCl 2 ; 0.8% phosphatidylcholine; 1.5% octylglucoside; 0.5% sodium deoxycholate; 0.5% sodium cholate; 2.5% glycerol and 30 mM imidazole) and shaken for 90 min at 4 °C. Unsolubilized material was separated by centrifugation at 100,000 r.p.m. for 30 min. The supernatant was collected and purified through a Ni-NTA gravity flow column with the extraction buffer as the eluent. The final product was eluted in extraction buffer containing 180 mM imidazole. The protein concentration of each fraction was determined using the BCA assay.
Purification of bo 3 oxidase from E. coli strain C43 This protein was purified using a previously described procedure 52.
 Recombinant E. coli was cultured in 500 ml lysogeny broth medium supplemented with 500 μM CuSO 4 , 3% lactic acid and 100 µg ml – 1 ampicillin at 37 °C until mid-logarithm phase was reached and harvested by centrifugation at 10,000 × g for 15 min at 4 °C. The harvested cells were stored at –80 °C. The cell pellet was thawed and resuspended in French press buffer (50 mM K 2 HPO 4 (pH 8.3), 5 mM MgSO 4 , 4 mg l – 1 DNAse, 2 mM benzamidine and 1 mM phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride), and a French press was used to lyse the cells at 20,000 p.s.i. at 4 °C. Centrifugation was carried out at 17,000 × g for 15 min at 4 °C to remove unlysed cells. The supernatant fraction was centrifuged at 180,000 × g for 3 h. The pellet containing membrane vesicles was solubilized in extraction buffer (50 mM K 2 HPO 4 (pH 8.3), 1% Triton 24 X-100 and 1.25% octylglucoside) and shaken for 1 h at 4 °C. Unsolubilized material was separated by centrifugation at 70,000 × g for 20 min. The supernatant was collected and purified through a Ni-NTA gravity flow column using the extraction buffer (50 mM K 2 HPO 4 , 0.1% Triton X-100 and 25 mM imidazole (pH 8.3)) as the eluent. The final product was eluted using a gradient with 25–300 mM imidazole in extraction buffer; 100–130 mM imidazole was used for the elution of histidine-tagged cytochrome bo 3.
 An Amicon centriprep-30 unit was used to concentrate the pooled, central, coloured fractions, which were dialysed overnight against 50 mM K 2 HPO 4 , 0.1% Triton X-100 and 1 mM EDTA (pH 8.3). The protein was redialysed overnight in 50 mM K 2 HPO 4 , 0.025% Sarkosyl and 1 mM EDTA (pH 8.3), followed by concentration of the enzyme to a volume of 2–3 ml (30–60 µM) and storage at –80 °C. Protein quantification was performed using the BCA assay.
To detect ATP generation, 137 µg of the FEx-1 nanoreactors was added to 200 µl of luciferin–luciferase–ADP mixture (400 µM ADP, 50 µM luciferin, and 2.5 µg luciferase in MOPS buffer (pH 7.4)). To this reaction mixture, 3 mM of MgCl 2 was added, followed by 40 µM coenzyme Q 1 and 2 mM DTT; 1 min after DTT addition, 5 mM potassium phosphate was added to initiate stable synthesis of ATP until oxygen was consumed by bo 3 oxidase and luciferase. Following the manufacturer’s protocol in the ATP determination kit (catalogue no. A22066, Invitrogen), 10 µl of this solution was added to 90 µl of the standard solution. Time-dependent ATP synthesis from 0 to 180 min was monitored by measuring luminescence and calculating it from the equation of the standard calibration curve generated by using the luciferase–luciferin assay.
Intracellular ATP activity To determine intracellular ATP activity, MCF-10A (1 × 10 4 cells per well) cells were seeded in 96-well plates. After overnight incubation, the supernatant was removed from each well and replaced with 100 µl of fresh cell medium containing FEx-1 nanoreactors (137 µg). The cells were incubated with nanoreactors for 24 h to allow cellular uptake, after which the cells were washed with PBS. We added 400 µM ADP, 3 mM of MgCl 2 , 40 µM coenzyme Q 1 and 2 mM DTT in that order to start the nanoreactors. After 24 h incubation, cells were treated with 20 µM of TBHP for 3 h to induce hypoxia. After TBHP removal, we measured ATP activity according to the protocol given in the ATP determination kit (catalogue no. A22066, Invitrogen).
ROS determination To measure intracellular ROS levels, MCF-10A (1 × 10 4 cells per well) cells were seeded in 96-well plates and incubated overnight. After removing the supernatant, 100 µl of fresh cell medium containing different concentrations of FEx-1 nanoreactors (43, 86 and 137 µg) was added to each well and incubated for 24 h to allow cellular uptake. After washing the cells with PBS, we added 400 µM ADP, 3 mM of MgCl 2 , 40 µM coenzyme Q 1 , and 2 mM DTT to start the nanoreactors. After 24 h incubation, the cells were treated with 20 µM of TBHP for 3 h to induce hypoxia. Paraquat (50 µM) and glutathione (50 µM) were used as positive and negative controls, respectively. Cells were washed twice with PBS and incubated with 100 µl dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate for 1 h at 37 °C. After gently washing with PBS and adding 100 µl PBS, fluorescence intensity was measured using a spectrophotometer (TECAN) by excitation at 485 nm and emission at 535 nm.
Statistics and reproducibility Data were plotted and analysed using Microsoft Excel 2016 and OriginPro 2017 software 24 , 48.
 Bar and line plots are represented as mean ± s.d. For data displayed in boxes (box-and-whisker plots), the dots show individual values, and the whiskers show minimal and maximal values of each data point. A two-tailed Student’s t -test was used for comparisons of different sample populations, and one-way ANOVA followed by Tukey’s post-hoc test was used for multiple comparisons. Exact P -values are given in the figure legends.
Reporting Summary Further information on research design is available in the Nature Research Reporting Summary linked to this article.
Data availability Data used to generate results in the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.
Source data are provided with this paper.
References Agapakis, C. M., Boyle, P. M. & Silver, P. A. Natural strategies for the spatial optimization of metabolism in synthetic biology.
Nat. Chem. Biol.
8 , 527–535 (2012).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Hammes, G. G. & Wu, C.-W. Regulation of enzyme activity.
Science 172 , 1205–1211 (1971).
Article Google Scholar Kondo, S. & Miura, T. Reaction-diffusion model as a framework for understanding biological pattern formation.
Science 329 , 1616–1620 (2010).
Google Scholar Lim, W. A. Designing customized cell signalling circuits.
Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell Biol.
11 , 393–403 (2010).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Han, D. et al. A cascade reaction network mimicking the basic functional steps of adaptive immune response.
Nat. Chem.
7 , 835–841 (2015).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Semenov, S. N. et al. Rational design of functional and tunable oscillating enzymatic networks.
Nat. Chem.
7 , 160–165 (2015).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Zhang, Y., Tsitkov, S. & Hess, H. Complex dynamics in a two-enzyme reaction network with substrate competition.
Nat. Catal.
1 , 276–281 (2018).
Article Google Scholar Chen, W.-H., Vázquez-González, M., Zoabi, A., Abu-Reziq, R. & Willner, I. Biocatalytic cascades driven by enzymes encapsulated in metal–organic framework nanoparticles.
Nat. Catal.
1 , 689–695 (2018).
Article CAS Google Scholar Küchler, A., Yoshimoto, M., Luginbühl, S., Mavelli, F. & Walde, P. Enzymatic reactions in confined environments.
Nat. Nanotechnol.
11 , 409–420 (2016).
Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Vázquez-González, M., Wang, C. & Willner, I. Biocatalytic cascades operating on macromolecular scaffolds and in confined environments.
Nat. Catal.
3 , 256–273 (2020).
Article CAS Google Scholar Einfalt, T. et al. Biomimetic artificial organelles with in vitro and in vivo activity triggered by reduction in microenvironment.
Nat. Commun.
9 , 1127 (2018).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Buddingh’, B. C. & van Hest, J. C. M. Artificial cells: synthetic compartments with life-like functionality and adaptivity.
Acc. Chem. Res.
50 , 769–777 (2017).
Article PubMed PubMed Central CAS Google Scholar Staufer, O., Schröter, M., Platzman, I. & Spatz, J. P. Bottom-up assembly of functional intracellular synthetic organelles by droplet-based microfluidics.
Small 16 , 1906424 (2020).
Article CAS Google Scholar van Oppen, L. M. P. E. et al. Biodegradable synthetic organelles demonstrate ROS shielding in human-complex-I-deficient fibroblasts.
ACS Cent. Sci.
4 , 917–928 (2018).
Article CAS Google Scholar Reinkemeier, C. D., Girona, G. E. & Lemke, E. A. Designer membraneless organelles enable codon reassignment of selected mRNAs in eukaryotes.
Science 363 , eaaw2644 (2019).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Rideau, E., Dimova, R., Schwille, P., Wurm, F. R. & Landfester, K. Liposomes and polymersomes: a comparative review towards cell mimicking.
Chem. Soc. Rev.
47 , 8572–8610 (2018).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Parodi, A. et al. Synthetic nanoparticles functionalized with biomimetic leukocyte membranes possess cell-like functions.
Nat. Nanotechnol.
8 , 61–68 (2013).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Hu, C.-M. J. et al. Erythrocyte membrane-camouflaged polymeric nanoparticles as a biomimetic delivery platform.
Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 108 , 10980 (2011).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Lee, K. Y. et al. Photosynthetic artificial organelles sustain and control ATP-dependent reactions in a protocellular system.
Nat. Biotechnol.
36 , 530–535 (2018).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Weiss, M. et al. Sequential bottom-up assembly of mechanically stabilized synthetic cells by microfluidics.
Nat. Mater.
17 , 89–96 (2018).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Yoo, J.-W., Irvine, D. J., Discher, D. E. & Mitragotri, S. Bio-inspired, bioengineered and biomimetic drug delivery carriers.
Nat. Rev. Drug Discov.
10 , 521–535 (2011).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Grzybowski, B. A. & Huck, W. T. S. The nanotechnology of life-inspired systems.
Nat. Nanotechnol.
11 , 585–592 (2016).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Miller, T. E. et al. Light-powered CO 2 fixation in a chloroplast mimic with natural and synthetic parts.
Science 368 , 649–654 (2020).
PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Kumar, S. et al. Human platelet membrane functionalized microchips with plasmonic codes for cancer detection.
Adv. Funct. Mater.
29 , 1902669 (2019).
Article CAS Google Scholar Kalluri, R. & LeBleu, V. S. The biology, function, and biomedical applications of exosomes.
Science 367 , eaau6977 (2020).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar El Andaloussi, S., Mäger, I., Breakefield, X. O. & Wood, M. J. A. Extracellular vesicles: biology and emerging therapeutic opportunities.
Nat. Rev. Drug Discov.
12 , 347–357 (2013).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Armstrong, J. P. K., Holme, M. N. & Stevens, M. M. Re-engineering extracellular vesicles as smart nanoscale therapeutics.
ACS Nano 11 , 69–83 (2017).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Robbins, P. D. & Morelli, A. E. Regulation of immune responses by extracellular vesicles.
Nat. Rev. Immunol.
14 , 195–208 (2014).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Hindley, J. W. et al. Light-triggered enzymatic reactions in nested vesicle reactors.
Nat. Commun.
9 , 1093 (2018).
Article PubMed PubMed Central CAS Google Scholar Ishmukhametov, R. R., Russell, A. N. & Berry, R. M. A modular platform for one-step assembly of multi-component membrane systems by fusion of charged proteoliposomes.
Nat. Commun.
7 , 13025 (2016).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Bolognesi, G. et al. Sculpting and fusing biomimetic vesicle networks using optical tweezers.
Nat. Commun.
9 , 1882 (2018).
Article PubMed PubMed Central CAS Google Scholar Kumar, S., Michael, I. J., Park, J., Granick, S. & Cho, Y.-K. Cloaked exosomes: biocompatible, durable, and degradable encapsulation.
Small 14 , 1802052 (2018).
Article CAS Google Scholar Stengel, G., Simonsson, L., Campbell, R. A. & Höök, F. Determinants for membrane fusion induced by cholesterol-modified DNA zippers.
J. Phys. Chem. B 112 , 8264–8274 (2008).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Jumeaux, C. et al. MicroRNA detection by DNA-mediated liposome fusion.
ChemBioChem 19 , 434–438 (2018).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Barlow, N., Chalmers, D. K., Williams-Noonan, B. J., Thompson, P. E. & Norton, R. S. Improving membrane permeation in the beyond rule-of-five space by using prodrugs to mask hydrogen bond donors.
ACS Chem. Biol.
15 , 2070–2078 (2020).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Stengel, G., Zahn, R. & Höök, F. DNA-induced programmable fusion of phospholipid vesicles.
J. Am. Chem. Soc.
129 , 9584–9585 (2007).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Collins, D. J., Neild, A., deMello, A., Liu, A.-Q. & Ai, Y. The Poisson distribution and beyond: methods for microfluidic droplet production and single cell encapsulation.
Lab Chip 15 , 3439–3459 (2015).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Huang, F. et al. Near-infrared light-activated membrane fusion for cancer cell therapeutic applications.
Chem. Sci.
11 , 5592–5600 (2020).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Piffoux, M., Silva, A. K. A., Wilhelm, C., Gazeau, F. & Tareste, D. Modification of extracellular vesicles by fusion with liposomes for the design of personalized biogenic drug delivery systems.
ACS Nano 12 , 6830–6842 (2018).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Leidal, A. M. et al. The LC3-conjugation machinery specifies the loading of RNA-binding proteins into extracellular vesicles.
Nat. Cell Biol.
22 , 187–199 (2020).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Fuentes, P. et al. ITGB3-mediated uptake of small extracellular vesicles facilitates intercellular communication in breast cancer cells.
Nat. Commun.
11 , 4261 (2020).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Joshi, B. S., de Beer, M. A., Giepmans, B. N. G. & Zuhorn, I. S. Endocytosis of extracellular vesicles and release of their cargo from endosomes.
ACS Nano 14 , 4444–4455 (2020).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Xu, Y. et al. Nanozyme-catalyzed cascade reactions for mitochondria-mimicking oxidative phosphorylation.
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
58 , 5572–5576 (2019).
Article CAS Google Scholar Jeong, S., Nguyen, H. T., Kim, C. H., Ly, M. N. & Shin, K. Toward artificial cells: novel advances in energy conversion and cellular motility.
Adv. Funct. Mater.
30 , 1907182 (2020).
Article CAS Google Scholar Schütt, F., Aretz, S., Auffarth, G. U. & Kopitz, J. Moderately reduced ATP levels promote oxidative stress and debilitate autophagic and phagocytic capacities in human RPE cells.
Investig. Ophthalmol. Vis. Sci.
53 , 5354–5361 (2012).
Article CAS Google Scholar Lenzini, S., Bargi, R., Chung, G. & Shin, J.-W. Matrix mechanics and water permeation regulate extracellular vesicle transport.
Nat. Nanotechnol.
15 , 217–223 (2020).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Yong, T. et al. Tumor exosome-based nanoparticles are efficient drug carriers for chemotherapy.
Nat. Commun.
10 , 3838 (2019).
Article PubMed PubMed Central CAS Google Scholar Borkowska, M. et al. Targeted crystallization of mixed-charge nanoparticles in lysosomes induces selective death of cancer cells.
Nat. Nanotechnol.
15 , 331–341 (2020).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Feder, T. J., Brust-Mascher, I., Slattery, J. P., Baird, B. & Webb, W. W. Constrained diffusion or immobile fraction on cell surfaces: a new interpretation.
Biophys. J.
70 , 2767–2773 (1996).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Nandi, A., Heinrich, D. & Lindner, B. Distributions of diffusion measures from a local mean-square displacement analysis.
Phys. Rev. E 86 , 021926 (2012).
Article CAS Google Scholar Ishmukhametov, R. R., Galkin, M. A. & Vik, S. B. Ultrafast purification and reconstitution of His-tagged cysteine-less Escherichia coli F1Fo ATP synthase.
Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1706 , 110–116 (2005).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Rumbley, J. N., Furlong Nickels, E. & Gennis, R. B. One-step purification of histidine-tagged cytochrome bo 3 from Escherichia coli and demonstration that associated quinone is not required for the structural integrity of the oxidase.
Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1340 , 131–142 (1997).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Download references Acknowledgements This work was supported by the taxpayers of South Korea through the Institute for Basic Science (IBS-R020-D1).
Author information Authors and Affiliations Center for Soft and Living Matter, Institute for Basic Science (IBS), Ulsan, South Korea Sumit Kumar, Mamata Karmacharya, Issac J. Michael, Yongjun Choi, Junyoung Kim, InUn Kim & Yoon-Kyoung Cho Department of Biomedical Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST), Ulsan, South Korea Sumit Kumar, Issac J. Michael, Yongjun Choi, Junyoung Kim & Yoon-Kyoung Cho Department of Chemical Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST), Ulsan, South Korea Mamata Karmacharya Authors Sumit Kumar View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Mamata Karmacharya View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Issac J. Michael View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Yongjun Choi View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Junyoung Kim View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar InUn Kim View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Yoon-Kyoung Cho View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Contributions S.K., M.K., I.J.M. and Y.-K.C. conceived the research. S.K. designed the approach and characterized all the materials. S.K., M.K. and Y.-K.C. prepared the manuscript. I.J.M. performed the majority of microfluidic device experiments. Y.C. and J.Y.K. performed the exosome tracking experiments and analysed the data. I.K. performed exosome characterization. At all the stages, Y.-K.C. supervised the research, designed experiments, and wrote the paper. All authors read and corrected the manuscript.
Corresponding author Correspondence to Yoon-Kyoung Cho.
Ethics declarations Competing interests I.B.S. has filed a patent (KR 10-2021-0072646) based on this work and S.K. and Y.K.C. are named as inventors. UNIST has filed patents on ExoDisc and Y.K.C. is named as an inventor, which are licensed to LabSpinner. The other authors declare no competing interests.
Additional information Peer review information Nature Catalysis thanks Gregor Fuhrmann, Mei He and the other, anonymous, reviewer(s) for their contribution to the peer review of this work.
Publisher’s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
Extended data Extended Data Fig. 1 Characterization of exosomes and CEx.
(a) Characterization of the size of exosomes, CEx, and FEx using nanoparticles tracking analysis (NTA) for 5 independent experiments. Data represent mean ± SD and two-tailed unpaired Student’s t-test was used for comparing two groups (b) Characterization of the size distribution of exosomes from transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images. The histogram reports the size (nm) of exosomes vs frequency (%). For exosomes, 10 data points from n = 64 different TEM images; for CEx, 10 data points from n = 55 different TEM images; and for FEx, 10 data points from n = 56 different TEM images.
(c) Zeta-potential of exosomes and CEx show that the average value is -18.5 ± 3.2 and -23.7 ± 2.9 eV, respectively (n = 5 independent experiments). After catechol modification, the zeta-potential distribution of CEx shows a negative shift compared to that of exosomes. Data represent mean ± SD and two-tailed unpaired Student’s t-test was used for comparing two groups (d) Characterization of the abundant exosomal proteins in each successive step during formation of fused exosomes (FEx) nanoreactor, analyzed by Western blot. Tetraspanin protein markers such as CD9, CD63, and CD81 are often used to characterize exosomes. From the results of Western blot analysis, it shows the presence of all the exosomes marker in control (exosomes), catechol integrated exosomes (CEx-1, CEx-2), and FEx, n = 3 independent experiments.
Source data Extended Data Fig. 2 Comparison of the catalytic cascade after purification of FEx nanoreactor from free enzymes.
(a) Representative fluorescence spectra of resorufin generated by the two-enzyme cascade, under aerobic conditions, in the presence of FEx-GOx-HRP (black line) and treated with pronase (red line).
(b) A photograph of Exodisc with 6 identical units for analysis of the CEx samples. Image on the right shows the detailed microfluidic features of the device including a sample loading chamber, filtration unit, and waste chamber.
(c) A photograph of the table top-sized spinning device.
(d) A schematic for the cross-sectional view of the filter unit of Exodisc.
(e) Representative fluorescence intensity of resorufin generated by the two-enzyme cascade in the presence of CEx-GOx, CEx-HRP, CEx-GOx-HRP, and FEx-GOx-HRP purified from ultracentrifugation (left) and Exodisc (right). Data represent mean ± SD; n = 3 independent fusion experiments; two-tailed unpaired Student’s t-test was used for comparing two groups.
Extended Data Fig. 3 Co-localization of FEx nanoreactors with endosomes and lysosomes after cellular uptake.
(a) Representative time-lapse high resolution confocal fluorescence microscopy images of MCF-10A cells after treatment with FEx (green), and counter-stained for endosomes (pHrodo red dextran). Scale bar, 10 µm. n = 7 independent experiments.
(b) Plot of Pearson correlation coefficient ( PCC Endosome-FEx ) values over time for red (Endosome) and green (FEx) fluorescence (at 10 min, 20 min, 30 min, 40 min, 50 min, and 60 min). Data represent mean ± SD of n = 7 independent experiments.
(c) Representative time-lapse high resolution confocal fluorescence microscopy images of MCF-10A cells after treatment with FEx (green), fixed, and counter-stained with Lysotracker TM deep red (magenta) to study the cellular uptake mechanism. Scale bar, 10 µm. n = 7 independent experiments.
(d) Plot of Pearson correlation coefficient ( PCC Lysosome-FEx ) values over time for magenta (lysosome) and green (FEx) fluorescence (at 10 min, 20 min, 30 min, 40 min, 50 min, and 60 min). Data represent mean ± SD of n = 10 independent experiments.
Extended Data Fig. 4 Co-localization of FEx nanoreactor with endosomes after cellular uptake.
(a) Representative time-lapse high-resolution confocal fluorescence microscopy images of MCF-10A cells after treatment with FEx (green), fixed, and counter-stained for early endosomal antigen 1 marker EEA1 (red). Scale bar, 10 µm. n = 10 independent experiments.
(b) Plot of Pearson correlation coefficient ( PCC Endosome-FEx ) values over time for red (Endosome) and green (FEx) fluorescence (at 10 min, 1 h, 2 h, 4 h, 8 h, and 12 h). Data represent mean ± SD; n = 10 independent experiments.
(c) Representative time-lapse western blots of endosomal fractions for cellular uptake of FEx nanoreactor. The figure shows the relative amount of the CD63 proteins for FEx nanoreactor (53 kDa) and EEA1 protein for endosomes (162 kDa) after endosomal isolation from MCF-10A cells using Minute TM Endosome Isolation kit. n = 3 independent experiments.
Source data Extended Data Fig. 5 Co-localization of FEx nanoreactor with lysosomes after cellular uptake.
(a) Representative time-lapse high-resolution confocal fluorescence microscopy images of MCF-10A cells after treatment with FEx (green), fixed, and counter-stained for lysosome-associated membrane glycoprotein 1 (magenta) to study the intracellular mechanism. Scale bar, 10 µm. n = 10 independent experiments.
(b) Plot of Pearson correlation coefficient ( PCC Lysosome-FEx ) values over time for magenta (lysosome) and green (FEx) fluorescence (at 10 min, 1 h, 2 h, 4 h, 8 h, and 12 h). Data represent mean ± SD of n = 10 independent experiments.
(c) Representative time-lapse western blots of lysosomal fractions for cellular uptake of FEx nanoreactor. The figure shows the relative amount of the LAMP1 proteins and Rab7 protein for lysosomes (110 kDa, 23 kDa respectively) and CD63 (53 kDa) for FEx nanoreactors from MCF-10A cells. Lysosomal fraction was isolated using Minute TM Lysosome Isolation kit, n = 3 independent experiments.
Source data Extended Data Fig. 6 Stability and integrity of FEx-GOx-HRP nanoreactor after cellular integration.
(a) Representative confocal 3D fluorescence microscopy images for co-localization study of the FEx-GOx-HRP (encapsulated FITC-labelled GOx at 488 nm and rhodamine B-labelled HRP at 561 nm) nanoreactor upon cellular uptake. Confocal fluorescence microscopic analysis after incubating FEx with MCF-10A cells for 24 h. FITC-GOx and Rhodamine-HRP overlay images. n = 3 independent experiments.
(b) Time-course study of Pearson’s correlation coefficient ( PCC ). To study the integrity of the content (FITC-labelled GOx and rhodamine B-labelled HRP) inside FEx nanoreactor. Data represent the time-lapse value (at 0-24 h) of PCC FITC-Rhodamine is computed. Data represent mean ± SD and are based on three independent experiments (n = 47 MCF-10A cells).
(c) Motility of FEx-GOx-HRP nanoreactor after cellular integration. Representative Live-cell tracking confocal fluorescence microscopy images of FEx-GOx-HRP (FITC-labelled GOx) after cellular uptake by the human breast epithelial cells MCF-10A after 48 h where FEx movement was indicated by arrowhead. n = 2 independent experiments.
(d) Representative confocal fluorescence images (bright field, red, green, magenta, and overlay) of the MCF-10A cells after 48 h of incubation with FEx and immunofluorescent staining of EEA1 (red) and LAMP1 (magenta). Scale bar, 10 µm. Co-localization of FEx (green) with Endosomes (red) and Lysosomes (magenta) after 48 h. Panels 1-6 show high-resolution confocal fluorescence images of sections indicated on the overlay image. Scale bar, 2 µm. n = 3 independent experiments. ( e) Representative transmission electron micrographs (TEM) of MCF-10A cells after incubation with immunogold-labelled FEx nanoreactor (indicated by arrowhead) for 48 h, confirming the presence of intact FEx nanoreactor. Scale bar, 5 µm. Extended TEM images scale bar, 500 nm. n = 2 independent experiments.
Extended Data Fig. 7 Bioorthogonal catalysis in fused exosomes.
(a) Catalytic conversion of pro Rho to free rhodamine inside the cells by using the FEx-Pd- pro Rho nanoreactor. The FEx-Pd- pro Rho nanoreactor was prepared by fusing palladium nanoparticle- (Pd NPs) loaded exosomes (CEx-Pd) and bis-allyloxycarbonyl-protected rhodamine- ( pro Rho) loaded exosomes (CEx- pro Rho).
(b) Representative TEM images of FEx-Pd- pro Rho. Inset shows magnified image of selection showing the presence of Pd nanostructures of size ~6 nm. Scale bar, 10 nm. n = 2 independent experiments.
(c) Fluorescence emission spectra (λ Ex = 498 nm) for demasking of Rhodamine in FEx and CEx.
(d) Change in fluorescence intensity (%) (at 527 nm) of demasking reaction as the function of time in the FEx-Pd- pro Rho and CEx- pro Rho.
(e) Representative 3D Confocal fluorescence images with FITC filter (representing rhodamine fluorescence), DAPI (nuclei staining) and merged images after cellular uptake of FEx-Pd- pro Rho and CEx- pro Rho. n = 3 independent experiments.
(f) Flow cytometry analysis for monitoring the demasking reaction inside the MCF-10A cells with FEx.
(g) Catalytic conversion of pro-drug to drug with the FEx-Pd- pro FU nanoreactor. Schematic for the activation of anticancer drug 5-fluorouracil (pro-FU) using FEx-Pd- pro FU nanoreactor. This drug converts cytotoxic nucleotide-metabolites via functionalization on its N1-position followed by inhibition of thymidylate synthase and incorporation into RNA- and DNA-strands to disrupt cellular function (h) The cell viability of MCF-10A cells after incubating them with different concentrations of the nanoreactors FEx-Pd- pro FU and CEx- pro FU (10 µg mL -1 , 30 µg mL -1 , 60 µg mL -1 , and 90 µg mL -1 ). Data represent mean ± SD; n = 3 independent experiments; two-tailed unpaired Student’s t-test was used for comparing two groups.
Source data Extended Data Fig. 8 Estimation of ATP.
(a) Estimation of ATP in FEx-1 nanoreactors by the luciferin-luciferase assay. A standard calibration curve was obtained by monitoring luminescence intensity (luciferin to oxy-luciferin) by varying the amount of ATP (0 to 1000 nM).
(b) Time-dependent changes in luminescence intensity were measured using the luciferin-luciferase assay by the treatment of FEx nanoreactors with DTT, glucose, or DTT-glucose. After the assembly of ATP synthase and bo 3 oxidase into the membranes of the FEx nanoreactors as energy modules, the electron transport chain was triggered by the addition of dithiothreitol (DTT red ), which reduced coenzyme Q 1 (Q 1 H) to make it available to bo 3 oxidase and encapsulated GOx/HRP inside FEx-1 nanoreactors by addition of glucose.
(c) Estimation of ROS production during the functioning of FEx-1 nanoreactors inside living cells by using the ROS assay kit. A standard calibration curve was obtained by monitoring the fluorescence intensity of dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate (excitation at 485 nm and emission at 535 nm) after treatment with varying concentrations of tert -butyl hydrogen peroxide (0 to 50 µM). These results demonstrate that the increase in ROS production was proportional to the increase in fluorescence intensity.
(d) MCF-10A cells were treated with different concentrations of FEx-1 nanoreactors (10, 50, and 80 µg/mL), and the fluorescence intensity of dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate was measured to calculate ROS levels.
(e) Schematic of controls for direct loading of the enzymes into exosomes. ATP production using the luciferin luciferase assay of different condition controls; control (only exosome), (A), (B), and FEx-1 after 3 h. In the first control (A), GOx, HRP, ATPsynthase, and bo 3 Oxidase were used all together to encapsulated inside the exosome. Their amount was quantified by BCA Protein Assay kit after removal of free enzymes by ultracentrifugation. In the second control (B), all the enzymes (GOx, HRP, ATPsynthase and bo 3 Oxidase) were encapsulated one by one after the other with each time washing between steps, respectively.
(f) Luminescence intensity of multi-enzyme cascade reaction to produce the bioenergy in only exosomes, (A), and (B). ATP production was measured by luciferin-luciferase assay. Data represent mean ± SD of n = 3 independent experiments; two-tailed unpaired Student’s t-test was used for comparing two groups.
Supplementary information Supplementary Information Supplementary Methods and Figs. 1–8.
Reporting Summary 41929_2021_669_MOESM3_ESM.mp4 Supplementary Video 1 Microfluidic chip used for droplet generation. Droplet-based microfluidics device was used to perform high-throughput generation of the monodisperse cell-sized droplets (~10 µm) where one aqueous phase contained the CEx solutions and the other phase contained FeCl 3 ·6H 2 O that met at the flow-focusing junction and were delivered into the oil stream for breaking into uniform droplets.
41929_2021_669_MOESM4_ESM.mp4 Supplementary Video 2 CEx transportation dynamics. Tracking data overlaid with imaging data for representation of transport of CEx inside the cells. The video confirms the CEx nanoreactor transportation dynamics inside the living cells.
41929_2021_669_MOESM5_ESM.mp4 Supplementary Video 3 FEx transportation dynamics. Tracking data overlaid with imaging data for representation of transport of FEx inside the cells. The video confirms the FEx nanoreactor transportation dynamics inside the living cells.
Source data Source Data Extended Data Fig. 1 Full western blots for Extended Data Fig. 1d.
Source Data Extended Data Fig. 4 Full western blots for Extended Data Fig. 4c.
Source Data Extended Data Fig. 5 Full western blots for Extended Data Fig. 5c.
Source Data Extended Data Fig. 7 FACS data for Extended Data Fig. 7f.
Rights and permissions Reprints and Permissions About this article Cite this article Kumar, S., Karmacharya, M., Michael, I.J.
et al.
Programmed exosome fusion for energy generation in living cells.
Nat Catal 4 , 763–774 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-021-00669-z Download citation Received : 29 July 2020 Accepted : 29 July 2021 Published : 13 September 2021 Issue Date : September 2021 DOI : https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-021-00669-z Share this article Anyone you share the following link with will be able to read this content: Sorry, a shareable link is not currently available for this article.
Provided by the Springer Nature SharedIt content-sharing initiative You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF Advertisement Explore content Research articles Reviews & Analysis News & Comment Videos Current issue Collections Follow us on Twitter Sign up for alerts RSS feed About the journal Aims & Scope Journal Information Journal Metrics About the Editors Our publishing models Editorial Values Statement Editorial Policies Content Types Contact Publish with us Submission Guidelines For Reviewers Language editing services Submit manuscript Search Quick links Explore articles by subject Find a job Guide to authors Editorial policies Nature Catalysis ( Nat Catal ) ISSN 2520-1158 (online) nature.com sitemap About Nature Portfolio About us Press releases Press office Contact us Discover content Journals A-Z Articles by subject Nano Protocol Exchange Nature Index Publishing policies Nature portfolio policies Open access Author & Researcher services Reprints & permissions Research data Language editing Scientific editing Nature Masterclasses Live Expert Trainer-led workshops Research Solutions Libraries & institutions Librarian service & tools Librarian portal Open research Recommend to library Advertising & partnerships Advertising Partnerships & Services Media kits Branded content Career development Nature Careers Nature Conferences Nature events Regional websites Nature Africa Nature China Nature India Nature Italy Nature Japan Nature Korea Nature Middle East Privacy Policy Use of cookies Your privacy choices/Manage cookies Legal notice Accessibility statement Terms & Conditions Your US state privacy rights © 2023 Springer Nature Limited Close Sign up for the Nature Briefing: Cancer newsletter — what matters in cancer research, free to your inbox weekly.
Close Get what matters in cancer research, free to your inbox weekly.
