old id = 1848
Artificial intelligence aids intuition in mathematical discovery
2021
https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-021-03512-4

Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript.
Advertisement View all journals Search Log in Explore content About the journal Publish with us Subscribe Sign up for alerts RSS feed nature news & views article Download PDF NEWS AND VIEWS 01 December 2021 Artificial intelligence aids intuition in mathematical discovery Christian Stump 0 Christian Stump Christian Stump is in the Faculty of Mathematics, Ruhr University Bochum, 44780 Bochum, Germany.
View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Twitter Facebook Email You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF Mathematicians have been developing theories by studying examples throughout history. For instance, by looking at a cube and a pyramid, one might realize that the number of vertices, edges and faces are related. A mathematician recognizes such a pattern, extends it to more-general shapes, and then starts to think about why this relationship might hold. Parts of this process involve computations, for which mathematical software has been useful since it first became available in the 1960s. However, human creativity enables mathematicians to instinctively understand where to look for emerging patterns.
Writing in Nature , Davies et al.
now describe a way of using artificial intelligence (AI) techniques to help with the creative core of the mathematical-research process 1.
The relationship between the properties of convex polyhedra (3D shapes with flat faces, straight edges and vertices that all point outwards) was found centuries ago, and the formula describing this relationship is named after the Swiss mathematician Leonhard Euler. Regardless of the shape, the number of vertices ( V ) minus the number of edges ( E ) plus the number of faces ( F ) is equal to two: V − E + F = 2 (Fig. 1). Can you arrive at this formula by studying a few examples of different shapes with a pen and paper? In this case, it’s possible, but mathematical ideas that are more complicated require more-extensive computations — for which a computer can be extremely useful.
Figure 1 | The cycle of developing mathematical theories by studying examples.
After recognizing a possible pattern in the properties of mathematical objects, such as convex polyhedra (3D shapes with flat faces, straight edges and vertices that all point outwards), mathematicians typically go through a cycle to understand this pattern. They first compute the properties of some simple examples and analyse the possible relationships between these properties. The researchers then refine these relationships. For example, they might come up with Euler’s polyhedron formula, which posits that the number of vertices ( V ) minus the number of edges ( E ) plus the number of faces ( F ) of a convex polyhedron is always equal to two: V − E + F = 2. They then test this suggested relationship on more complicated examples, discard irrelevant properties and attempt to understand why the relationship holds. If it remains unclear, mathematicians then consider different examples and the cycle continues. Davies et al.
1 show that machine-learning techniques can help researchers with the refinement step, which usually relies strongly on human intuition.
Mathematical research based on finding and studying examples typically follows a cycle (Fig. 1). First, the researcher identifies a few relevant examples (a cube, a pyramid and perhaps a dodecahedron), then computes some of their properties and analyses the possible relationships between these properties. These relationships are then refined until a pattern emerges. The researcher continues by testing these relationships on more complicated examples (from icosahedra to huge, randomly shaped polyhedra) and discards any properties that aren’t relevant. If the relationships do not hold, or the reasons why they hold remain unclear, the researcher redefines the criteria used to determine which examples are relevant. And the cycle continues.
Read the paper: Advancing mathematics by guiding human intuition with AI All except one of the phases in this process require both human creativity and computation. For instance, analysing the properties of the examples chosen involves creativity in identifying which properties might be relevant and then computation to calculate them. The only phase without computational tasks is the refinement step, which could be considered the core of the creative process. This phase requires the researcher to extract general phenomena from concrete examples — based mainly on intuition. In the case of the polyhedra, this step might involve extending the pen-and-paper exercise above to different dimensions: does the pattern also hold for 2D shapes? And what about higher dimensions? Although AI methods are not yet widespread in mathematical research, in the past few years, several groups have shown that machine-learning tools can, in principle, be used to find relevant examples in large data sets 2 , 3.
 Others have used such tools to estimate the properties of mathematical objects with high accuracy in efforts to better understand these data sets 4.
 Davies and co-workers have now shown that machine learning can be used to assist researchers in the refinement step of the research cycle, previously regarded as a task mainly based on human intuition. Their approach could, in principle, be used in many different areas of mathematics.
Machine learning made easy for optimizing chemical reactions The idea is to identify two structures — perhaps lists of numbers or networks — from the properties of mathematical objects of a certain type. It is then possible to hypothesize that these structures are related in the sense that one structure can give us information about the other. Machine learning is ideally suited to this task for large data sets, because it can use one structure to guess details of the other with greater accuracy than would be expected on the basis of chance.
Euler’s polyhedron formula offers a simple way of illustrating Davies and colleagues’ approach. The first structure in this case would be a list of four numbers representing the number of vertices of the polyhedron, the number of edges, its surface area and its volume. The second structure would be the number of faces. Euler’s formula can then be written as a simple linear relationship between these two structures. The process of arriving at the same formula also makes clear the fact that the volume and surface area are not relevant to this relationship. Applying this approach to Euler’s formula is straightforward, but things become more complicated when the relationships aren’t as simple to identify. In such cases, machine-learning techniques can help.
The real advance was demonstrated when the authors successfully applied their approach to two separate areas of mathematics. They used it to identify previously unknown relationships in knot theory and in combinatorial representation theory. Neither result is necessarily out of reach for researchers in these areas, but both provide genuine insights that had not previously been found by specialists. The advance is therefore more than the outline of an abstract framework. Whether or not such an approach is widely applicable is yet to be determined, but Davies et al.
provide a promising demonstration of how machine-learning tools can be used to support the creative process of mathematical research.
Nature 600 , 44-45 (2021) doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-021-03512-4 References Davies, A.
et al.
Nature 600 , 70–74 (2021).
Article Google Scholar Peifer, D., Stillman, M. & Halpern-Leistner, D.
Proc. Mach. Learn. Res.
119 , 7575–7585 (2020).
Google Scholar Lample, G. & Charton, F. Preprint at https://arxiv.org/abs/1912.01412 (2019).
He, Y.-H.
The Calabi–Yau Landscape: From Geometry, to Physics, to Machine Learning (Springer, 2021).
Google Scholar Download references Reprints and Permissions Competing Interests The author declares no competing interests.
Related Articles Read the paper: Advancing mathematics by guiding human intuition with AI A machine-learning algorithm to target COVID testing of travellers Machine learning made easy for optimizing chemical reactions See all News & Views Subjects Machine learning Mathematics and computing Latest on: Why the UK-led global AI summit is missing the point Editorial 31 OCT 23 How AI can help to save endangered species News 27 OCT 23 How robots can learn to follow a moral code Outlook 26 OCT 23 Garbage in, garbage out: mitigating risks and maximizing benefits of AI in research Comment 31 OCT 23 Why the UK-led global AI summit is missing the point Editorial 31 OCT 23 How big quantum computers could keep their qubits under control Research Highlight 26 OCT 23 Jobs [DGIST] The second half of 2023 Tenure-Track Faculty Public Invitation South Korea (KR) DGIST Principle Investigator and Joint Recruitment Position-Postdoc The Center for Evolutionary & Organismal Biology invites applications from evolutionary scientists for All ranks.
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China Center for Evolutionary & Organismal Biology, Zhejiang University Tenure-track Faculty Positions in Particle Physics and Cosmology Faculty Positions in Particle Physics and Cosmology Hong Kong (HK) Department of Physics, The Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) Assistant/Associate Professor Center for Virology and Vaccine Research (CVVR) at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) is seeking Assistant or Associate Professor.
Boston, Massachusetts (US) Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel to the Global Environment Facility Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel to the Global Environment Facility: Panel Member for Land Degradation Washington D.C. (US) Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF Related Articles Read the paper: Advancing mathematics by guiding human intuition with AI A machine-learning algorithm to target COVID testing of travellers Machine learning made easy for optimizing chemical reactions See all News & Views Subjects Machine learning Mathematics and computing Sign up to Nature Briefing An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Close Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Close Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Explore content Research articles News Opinion Research Analysis Careers Books & Culture Podcasts Videos Current issue Browse issues Collections Subjects Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Subscribe Sign up for alerts RSS feed About the journal Journal Staff About the Editors Journal Information Our publishing models Editorial Values Statement Journal Metrics Awards Contact Editorial policies History of Nature Send a news tip Publish with us For Authors For Referees Language editing services Submit manuscript Search Quick links Explore articles by subject Find a job Guide to authors Editorial policies Nature ( Nature ) ISSN 1476-4687 (online) ISSN 0028-0836 (print) nature.com sitemap About Nature Portfolio About us Press releases Press office Contact us Discover content Journals A-Z Articles by subject Nano Protocol Exchange Nature Index Publishing policies Nature portfolio policies Open access Author & Researcher services Reprints & permissions Research data Language editing Scientific editing Nature Masterclasses Live Expert Trainer-led workshops Research Solutions Libraries & institutions Librarian service & tools Librarian portal Open research Recommend to library Advertising & partnerships Advertising Partnerships & Services Media kits Branded content Career development Nature Careers Nature Conferences Nature events Regional websites Nature Africa Nature China Nature India Nature Italy Nature Japan Nature Korea Nature Middle East Privacy Policy Use of cookies Your privacy choices/Manage cookies Legal notice Accessibility statement Terms & Conditions Your US state privacy rights © 2023 Springer Nature Limited
