old id = 2176
DataRobot AI Platform | Deliver Value from AI
2021
https://www.datarobot.com

us jp Platform Discover the DataRobot AI Platform The only solution that delivers on both your generative and predictive Al needs from end-to-end across any cloud.
Documentation Pricing What’s New Demo Hub DataRobot Trial AI EXPERIMENTATION Prepare Data for AI Connect data, assess data quality, engineer new features, and integrate with feature stores.
Build and Optimize Train hundreds of modeling strategies in parallel using structured and unstructured data.
Share Insights and Make Decisions Evaluate model performance, identify key drivers, and create customizable apps to drive decisions.
AI PRODUCTION Validate and Govern AI Assets Create a centralized system of record for all models, test, approve, and automate compliance documentation.
Deploy and Integrate AI Deploy and integrate any model, anywhere with multiple deployment options.
Monitor and Measure ROI Monitor, measure and diagnose model accuracy, ROI, and bias in real-time from any hosting environment.
OPEN ECOSYSTEM Platform Integrations Unify your data warehouses, ML APIs, workflow tooling, BI tools and business apps.
Deployment Infrastructure Choose how you want to deploy DataRobot, from managed SaaS, to private or public cloud.
Solutions By Industry Healthcare and Life Science Manufacturing Retail Financial Services By outcome AI Accelerators Use Case Library Customers DataRobot Success Stories See how organizations like yours have realized more value from their AI initiatives.
FEATURED CUSTOMERS Elevating patient care and operations Increasing graduation rates 3X # Empowering data scientists at scale Saving lives with an AI-driven vaccine rollout # Earning better results - for 90% less effort Advancing affordable housing and doubling analytics productivity Partners DataRobot Partners Unify all of your data, ETL and AI tools in our open platform with our Technology Partners, extend your cloud investments with our Cloud Partners, and connect with DataRobot Services Partners to help you build, deploy or migrate to the DataRobot AI Platform.
Partner Portal Find a Partner Partner Solutions OUR PARTNERS Cloud Partners Technology Partners Services Partners FEATURED PARTNERS Standardize AI processes, tools, and models across various environments Unleash the power and value of data with DataRobot and Snowflake # Rapidly prototype and deploy AI models with DataRobot on AWS Generate scalable business impact with DataRobot and Microsoft Resources INSIGHTS & EDUCATION Resource Library Blog Events Webinars Wiki DataRobot University PRACTITIONER RESOURCES Community Documentation AI Accelerators Support Hub Hands-on labs Getting Started Kit APPLIED AI EXPERTISE Professional Services Services Partners Company ABOUT DATAROBOT About Us Leadership Team Board of Directors Careers Innovation Contact Us IN THE NEWS Newsroom Press Releases Media Industry Recognition us jp Support Log In Platform Discover the DataRobot AI Platform The only solution that delivers on both your generative and predictive Al needs from end-to-end across any cloud.
Documentation Pricing What’s New Demo Hub DataRobot Trial AI EXPERIMENTATION Prepare Data for AI Connect data, assess data quality, engineer new features, and integrate with feature stores.
Build and Optimize Train hundreds of modeling strategies in parallel using structured and unstructured data.
Share Insights and Make Decisions Evaluate model performance, identify key drivers, and create customizable apps to drive decisions.
AI PRODUCTION Validate and Govern AI Assets Create a centralized system of record for all models, test, approve, and automate compliance documentation.
Deploy and Integrate AI Deploy and integrate any model, anywhere with multiple deployment options.
Monitor and Measure ROI Monitor, measure and diagnose model accuracy, ROI, and bias in real-time from any hosting environment.
OPEN ECOSYSTEM Platform Integrations Unify your data warehouses, ML APIs, workflow tooling, BI tools and business apps.
Deployment Infrastructure Choose how you want to deploy DataRobot, from managed SaaS, to private or public cloud.
DataRobot Generative AI Everything you need to build, deploy, manage, govern, and get value out of your generative AI projects.
Solutions By Industry Healthcare and Life Science Manufacturing Retail Financial Services By outcome AI Accelerators Use Case Library Fall’23 Launch Event Closing the Generative AI Confidence Gap with DataRobot Register for our virtual event today to discover how to build, operate and govern your generative and predictive AI solutions.
Register Now Customers DataRobot Success Stories See how organizations like yours have realized more value from their AI initiatives.
FEATURED CUSTOMERS Elevating patient care and operations Increasing graduation rates 3X Empowering data scientists at scale Saving lives with an AI-driven vaccine rollout Earning better results - for 90% less effort Advancing affordable housing and doubling analytics productivity Partners DataRobot Partners Unify all of your data, ETL and AI tools in our open platform with our Technology Partners, extend your cloud investments with our Cloud Partners, and connect with DataRobot Services Partners to help you build, deploy or migrate to the DataRobot AI Platform.
Partner Portal Find a Partner Partner Solutions OUR PARTNERS Cloud Partners Technology Partners Services Partners FEATURED PARTNERS Standardize AI processes, tools, and models across various environments Unleash the power and value of data with DataRobot and Snowflake Rapidly prototype and deploy AI models with DataRobot on AWS Generate scalable business impact with DataRobot and Microsoft Resources INSIGHTS & EDUCATION Resource Library Blog Events Webinars Wiki DataRobot University PRACTITIONER RESOURCES Community Documentation AI Accelerators Support Hub Hands-on labs Getting Started Kit APPLIED AI EXPERTISE Professional Services Services Partners New White Paper 10 Key Considerations for Generative AI in Production Learn about some of the major risks and considerations associated with deployment and management of generative AI solutions in production. Find out how DataRobot addresses these challenges.
Read More Company ABOUT DATAROBOT About Us Leadership Team Board of Directors Careers Innovation Contact Us IN THE NEWS Newsroom Press Releases Media Industry Recognition Fall’23 Launch Event Closing the Generative AI Confidence Gap with DataRobot Register for our virtual event today to discover how to build, operate and govern your generative and predictive AI solutions.
Register Now Closing the Generative AI Confidence Gap WITH DATAROBOT Register Now DataRobot Launches New Generative AI Capabilities Learn More indispensable partner deploying, monitoring, and governing generative AI Tom Thomas VP of Data Strategy, Business Intelligence, & Analytics, FordDirect Learn More DataRobot and Google Cloud Unlock New Generative AI Capabilities Learn More Gen AI that’s all value , not all talk Practical Generative AI Steps to Take.
Learn More Leading Organizations Use DataRobot See all Stories 83% Faster Deployment 4.6X Return on Investment 80% Lower Cost Enterprise Strategy Group (ESG), a division of TechTarget The Platform to Build Generative and Predictive AI Optionality as Your Organization Changes Integrate with existing AI investments and choose from best-of-breed components Choose any LLM, vector database, and orchestration tool Develop and manage across clouds, data warehouses, and lakes Accelerate delivery with code-first power tools and AI Accelerators Learn More One Unified AI Landscape Monitor and govern all AI workloads, models, and assets – generative and predictive, regardless of origin Maintain full observability and governance of every asset and application in production Unify all AI workflows across the organization to drive collaboration Optimize performance and monitor costs Learn More Confidence in Your AI Securely operate and govern at scale Continuously improve generative and predictive models with standard and custom metrics and a built-in user feedback loop Assess the accuracy of generated output by combining with predictive modeling Leverage built-in governance guardrails Learn More Open, Flexible and Extensible DataRobot is designed for the way ecosystems are built and how teams actually work.
Use best-of-breed tools, with our open, predictive and generative AI lifecycle platform that integrates with your own data platforms, AI services, MLOps processes, DevOps tools, business applications, and GenAI apps.
Data Platforms APIs and Services Business Apps and Intelligence Deployment Infrastructure Generative AI Data Platforms Maximize your existing cloud data warehouse and data lake investments. Built-in data connectors and broad integrations make it easy to connect your AI processes with your data and infrastructure, and align with your governance policies.
Learn More APIs and Services Seamlessly connect to data sources, leverage any LLMs, and embed predictive and generative AI apps into business processes without recoding, repackaging, or recombining of your AI assets.
Learn More Business Apps and Intelligence Fast-track the process of integrating predictive and generative AI into your business apps such as Slack, Salesforce, BI tools in a few lines of code, or quickly prototype bespoke GenAI applications in a few clicks.
Learn More Deployment Infrastructure Deploy DataRobot your way – on a dedicated managed cloud, private cloud, on-premise or SaaS.
Learn More Generative AI Stay in the driver’s seat for your GenAI initiatives. Enjoy the autonomy and freedom to work with all the best tools that exist today as well as what will emerge in the future. With our API-first integrations you can manage LLM selection, safeguard data privacy, control all financial aspects of your generative projects, and ensure you never get locked-in to any one vendor. While flexible deployment options let you bring your generative AI to life by easily integrating generative AI into your organization’s operations and systems such as Slack, Salesforce, BI tools and more with just a few lines of code. Or, quickly prototype and create bespoke applications in a few clicks with a hosted Streamlit application sandbox.
Learn More Discover Use Cases For Your Industry DataRobot can help you solve your most pressing challenges and make better business decisions.
Healthcare Optimize patient care, accelerate research, and forecast operational needs.
Learn more Manufacturing Streamline operations, optimize supply chains, and predict part failures.
Learn more Retail Forecast demand, optimize staffing, and improve customer experiences.
Learn more Financial Services Detect fraud earlier, mitigate risk, and drive customer loyalty.
Learn more Take AI From Vision to Value See how a value-driven approach to AI can accelerate time to impact.
Request a Demo Start for Free Who Is DataRobot? DataRobot is the leader in Value-Driven AI – a unique and collaborative approach to AI that combines our open AI platform, deep AI expertise and broad use-case implementation to improve how customers run, grow and optimize their business.
Product AI Platform DataRobot Trial Use Case Library Customer Stories Generative AI Support Documentation Community Support Hub Professional Services Services Partners Contact Us Partner Portal Log In Resources Resource Library Blog Webinars Events DataRobot University Company About Us Careers Leadership Team Board of Directors Partners Newsroom Innovation Gartner® Peer Insights™ ‘Voice of the Customer’: Data Science and Machine Learning Platforms, Peer Contributors, 20 Aug 2021 GARTNER and The GARTNER PEER INSIGHTS CUSTOMERS’ CHOICE badge is a trademark and service mark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates and is used herein with permission. All rights reserved. Gartner Peer Insights Customers’ Choice constitute the subjective opinions of individual end-user reviews, ratings, and data applied against a documented methodology; they neither represent the views of, nor constitute an endorsement by, Gartner or its affiliates.
© 2023 DataRobot, Inc.
