old id = 327
2021 35 Innovators Under 35: Visionaries
2021
https://www.technologyreview.com/innovators-under-35/2021

Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Innovators Under 35 2021 The 35 Innovators Under 35 is our yearly opportunity to take a look at not just where technology is now, but where it’s going and who’s taking it there. More than 500 people are nominated every year, and from this group the editors pick the most promising 100 to move on to the semifinalist round. Their work is then evaluated by our panel of judges who have expertise in such areas as artificial intelligence, biotechnology, software, energy, and materials. With the insight gained from these rankings, the editors pick the final list of 35.
Jun 30, 2021 Illustrations by Lan Truong Share facebooklink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Categories Past Years More Inventors Shelley Ackerman She co-invented a novel immunotherapy for difficult-to-treat cancers.
Ryan Babbush Efficient quantum simulation algorithms might help find novel, powerful materials.
Amay Bandodkar His lightweight sensors could make wearable tech more useful and practical.
Jonathan Gootenberg Expanding the capabilities of gene editing.
Nicholas Harris Shining light through optical chips might be the fastest way for neural networks to make decisions.
Yichen Shen Optical chips that can make calculations for neural networks are poised to become big business.
Virginia Smith Her AI techniques are efficient and accurate while preserving fairness and privacy.
Xiao Sun He designs imprecise—but energy-efficient—AI hardware and software.
Jie Xu She makes durable, easy-to-manufacture polymer semiconductors for skin-like electronics.
December 8, 2021 Meet the Innovators Register here Entrepreneurs Jacob Becraft He runs a company that’s figuring out the next steps for messenger RNA.
Janice Chen She’s using CRISPR to make new diagnostic tests.
Tammy Hsu Her new dye can make one of the world’s most common types of clothing more environmentally friendly.
Sara Spangelo Her tiny satellites could bring connectivity to the remotest places on Earth.
December 8, 2021 Meet the Innovators Register here Visionaries Emma Beede Her work helps ensure that fancy AI tools perform in the real world.
Sara Berger Employing machine learning to make pain management more accessible.
Priya Donti Finding climate-change solutions via computer science and public policy.
Leah Ellis A new, climate-friendly way to make cement.
Kayla Lee She's working to build a more diverse future for quantum computing.
Dorsa Sadigh She uses simulated environments to teach robots to be better collaborators with people.
Kaitlyn Sadtler Her test was among the first to determine how many people had been infected with covid-19.
Varun Sivaram Designing new public policies to promote energy innovation.
Aäron van den Oord His AI system creates artificial voices that sound remarkably human.
December 8, 2021 Meet the Innovators Register here Humanitarians Aadeel Akhtar His bionic hands combine sensitivity with affordability.
Sriram Chandrasekaran His AI systems identify better treatments for tuberculosis.
Emma Pierson She employs AI to get to the roots of health disparities across race, gender, and class.
Shriya Srinivasan Her surgical techniques provide a sense of touch to people with prosthetic limbs.
December 8, 2021 Meet the Innovators Register here Pioneers George Boateng He built a smartphone-based platform to teach young people to code— and tackle Africa’s IT skills gap in the process.
Anna Goldie She uses AI to design microchips much more quickly than humans can.
Adnan Mehonic Memristors can be a new and more efficient building block of modern computers.
Marc Miskin He figured out how to give motion to microscopic robots.
Nako Nakatsuka Her miniature biosensors could give scientists better insight into depression and dementia.
Moses Namara Working to break down the barriers keeping young Black people from careers in AI.
David Rolnick He's employing artificial intelligence in the fight against climate change.
Max Shulaker His work with carbon nanotubes could lead to the next generation of computers.
Jinxing Zheng He created new physics models for controlling fusion reactions and hot plasma.
December 8, 2021 Meet the Innovators Register here The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
