old id = 92
History - Wikipedia
1994
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History

Main menu Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in learn more Contributions Talk Contents (Top) 1 Etymology 2 Description 3 Prehistory 4 Historiography 5 Methods Toggle Methods subsection 5.1 Marxian theory 5.2 Potential shortcomings in the production of history 6 Areas of study Toggle Areas of study subsection 6.1 Periods 6.1.1 Prehistoric periodization 6.2 Geographical locations 6.2.1 Regions 6.3 Political 6.4 Military 6.5 Religious 6.6 Social 6.6.1 Subfields 6.7 Cultural 6.8 Diplomatic 6.9 Economic 6.10 Environmental 6.11 World 6.12 People's 6.13 Intellectual 6.14 Gender 6.15 Public 7 Historians 8 Judgement 9 Pseudohistory 10 Teaching Toggle Teaching subsection 10.1 Scholarship vs teaching 10.2 Nationalism 10.3 Bias in school teaching 11 See also 12 References 13 Further reading 14 External links Toggle the table of contents History 232 languages Адыгабзэ Afrikaans Alemannisch አማርኛ Ænglisc العربية Aragonés Armãneashti Arpetan অসমীয়া Asturianu Avañe'ẽ Авар Aymar aru Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه Bamanankan বাংলা Bân-lâm-gú Basa Banyumasan Башҡортса Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца) भोजपुरी Bikol Central Български Boarisch བོད་ཡིག Bosanski Brezhoneg Буряад Català Чӑвашла Cebuano Čeština ChiShona Corsu Cymraeg Dansk الدارجة Deitsch Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Emiliàn e rumagnòl Español Esperanto Estremeñu Euskara فارسی Fiji Hindi Føroyskt Français Frysk Furlan Gaeilge Gaelg Gàidhlig Galego ГӀалгӀай 贛語 ગુજરાતી गोंयची कोंकणी / Gõychi Konknni 客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî 한국어 Hausa Հայերեն हिन्दी Hrvatski Ido Igbo Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Interlingue ᐃᓄᒃᑎᑐᑦ / inuktitut Ирон IsiXhosa Íslenska Italiano עברית Jawa Kalaallisut ಕನ್ನಡ Kapampangan Къарачай-малкъар ქართული कॉशुर / کٲشُر Қазақша Kernowek Kiswahili Коми Kotava Kreyòl ayisyen Kriyòl gwiyannen Kurdî Кыргызча Ladin Ladino Лакку ລາວ Latgaļu Latina Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Лезги Lietuvių Li Niha Ligure Limburgs Lingála Lingua Franca Nova Livvinkarjala La .lojban.
Lombard Magyar Madhurâ Македонски Malagasy മലയാളം Malti मराठी მარგალური مصرى ဘာသာ မန် مازِرونی Bahasa Melayu ꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟ 閩東語 / Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄ Mirandés Мокшень Монгол မြန်မာဘာသာ Nāhuatl Nederlands Nedersaksies नेपाली नेपाल भाषा 日本語 Napulitano Нохчийн Nordfriisk Norfuk / Pitkern Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Nouormand Novial Occitan Олык марий ଓଡ଼ିଆ Oromoo Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Pälzisch پنجابی ပအိုဝ်ႏဘာႏသာႏ Papiamentu پښتو Patois ភាសាខ្មែរ Picard Pinayuanan Tok Pisin Plattdüütsch Polski Ποντιακά Português Qırımtatarca Română Rumantsch Runa Simi Русиньскый Русский Саха тыла Sakizaya संस्कृतम् Sardu Scots Seeltersk Sesotho sa Leboa Shqip Sicilianu සිංහල Simple English سنڌي Slovenčina Slovenščina Словѣньскъ / ⰔⰎⰑⰂⰡⰐⰠⰔⰍⰟ Ślůnski Soomaaliga کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Taclḥit Taqbaylit Tarandíne Татарча / tatarça తెలుగు Tetun ไทย ትግርኛ Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Türkmençe Twi Українська اردو ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche Vahcuengh Vèneto Vepsän kel’ Tiếng Việt Volapük Võro Walon 文言 Winaray Wolof 吴语 ייִדיש Yorùbá 粵語 Zazaki Zeêuws Žemaitėška 中文 Tolışi Edit links Article Talk English Read View source View history Tools Read View source View history What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Wikidata item Download as PDF Printable version Wikimedia Commons Wikinews Wikiquote 484 425 History (derived from Ancient Greek ἱστορία ( historía ) 'inquiry; knowledge acquired by investigation') [1] is the systematic study and documentation of the human past.
[2] [3] The period of events before the invention of writing systems is considered prehistory.
[4] "History" is an umbrella term comprising past events as well as the memory, discovery, collection, organization, presentation, and interpretation of these events.
Historians seek knowledge of the past using historical sources such as written documents, oral accounts, art and material artifacts, and ecological markers.
[5] History is incomplete and still has debatable mysteries.
History is an academic discipline which uses a narrative to describe, examine, question, and analyze past events, and investigate their patterns of cause and effect.
[6] [7] Historians debate which narrative best explains an event, as well as the significance of different causes and effects. Historians debate the nature of history as an end in itself, and its usefulness in giving perspective on the problems of the present.
[6] [8] [9] [10] Stories common to a particular culture, but not supported by external sources (such as the tales surrounding King Arthur ), are usually classified as cultural heritage or legends.
[11] [12] History differs from myth in that it is supported by verifiable evidence.
 However, ancient cultural influences have helped create variant interpretations of the nature of history, which have evolved over the centuries and continue to change today. The modern study of history is wide-ranging, and includes the study of specific regions and certain topical or thematic elements of historical investigation. History is taught as a part of primary and secondary education, and the academic study of history is a major discipline in universities.
Herodotus , a 5th-century BC Greek historian , is often considered the "father of history", as one of the first historians in the Western tradition, [13] though he has been criticized as the "father of lies".
[14] [15] Along with his contemporary Thucydides , he helped form the foundations for the modern study of past events and societies.
[16] Their works continue to be read today, and the gap between the culture-focused Herodotus and the military-focused Thucydides remains a point of contention or approach in modern historical writing. In East Asia, a state chronicle , the Spring and Autumn Annals , was reputed to date from as early as 722 BC, though only 2nd-century BC texts have survived.
Etymology The word history comes from historía ( Ancient Greek : ἱστορία , romanized : historíā , lit.
'inquiry, knowledge from inquiry, or judge' [17] ). It was in that sense that Aristotle used the word in his History of Animals.
[18] The ancestor word ἵστωρ is attested early on in Homeric Hymns , Heraclitus , the Athenian ephebes ' oath, and in Boeotic inscriptions (in a legal sense, either "judge" or "witness", or similar). The Greek word was borrowed into Classical Latin as historia , meaning "investigation, inquiry, research, account, description, written account of past events, writing of history, historical narrative, recorded knowledge of past events, story, narrative".
History was borrowed from Latin (possibly via Old Irish or Old Welsh ) into Old English as stær ("history, narrative, story"), but this word fell out of use in the late Old English period.
[19] Meanwhile, as Latin became Old French (and Anglo-Norman ), historia developed into forms such as istorie , estoire , and historie , with new developments in the meaning: "account of the events of a person's life (beginning of the 12th century), chronicle, account of events as relevant to a group of people or people in general (1155), dramatic or pictorial representation of historical events ( c.
1240 ), body of knowledge relative to human evolution, science ( c.
1265 ), narrative of real or imaginary events, story ( c.
1462 )".
[19] It was from Anglo-Norman that history was brought into Middle English , and it has persisted. It appears in the 13th-century Ancrene Wisse , but seems to have become a common word in the late 14th century, with an early attestation appearing in John Gower 's Confessio Amantis of the 1390s (VI.1383): "I finde in a bok compiled | To this matiere an old histoire, | The which comth nou to mi memoire". In Middle English, the meaning of history was "story" in general. The restriction to the meaning "the branch of knowledge that deals with past events; the formal record or study of past events, esp. human affairs" arose in the mid-15th century.
[19] With the Renaissance , older senses of the word were revived, and it was in the Greek sense that Francis Bacon used the term in the late 16th century, when he wrote about natural history.
 For him, historia was "the knowledge of objects determined by space and time", that sort of knowledge provided by memory (while science was provided by reason , and poetry was provided by fantasy ).
[20] In an expression of the linguistic synthetic vs.
analytic/isolating dichotomy, English like Chinese (史 vs. 诌) now designates separate words for human history and storytelling in general. In modern German , French , and most Germanic and Romance languages , which are solidly synthetic and highly inflected, the same word is still used to mean both "history" and "story".
Historian in the sense of a "researcher of history" is attested from 1531. In all European languages , the substantive history is still used to mean both "what happened with men", and "the scholarly study of the happened", the latter sense sometimes distinguished with a capital letter, or the word historiography.
[18] [ further explanation needed ] The adjective historical is attested from 1661, and historic from 1669.
[21] Description Historians write in the context of their own time, and with due regard to the current dominant ideas of how to interpret the past, and sometimes write to provide lessons for their own society. In the words of Benedetto Croce , "All history is contemporary history". History is facilitated by the formation of a "true discourse of past" through the production of narrative and analysis of past events relating to the human race.
[22] The modern discipline of history is dedicated to the institutional production of this discourse.
All events that are remembered and preserved in some authentic form constitute the historical record.
[23] The task of historical discourse is to identify the sources which can most usefully contribute to the production of accurate accounts of past. Therefore, the constitution of the historian's archive is a result of circumscribing a more general archive by invalidating the usage of certain texts and documents (by falsifying their claims to represent the "true past"). Part of the historian's role is to skillfully and objectively use the many sources from the past, most often found in the archives. The process of creating a narrative inevitably generates debate, as historians remember or emphasize different events of the past.
[24] The study of history has sometimes been classified as part of the humanities , other times part of the social sciences.
[25] It can be seen as a bridge between those two broad areas, incorporating methodologies from both. Some historians strongly support one or the other classification.
[26] In the 20th century the Annales school revolutionized the study of history, by using such outside disciplines as economics , sociology , and geography in the study of global history.
[27] Traditionally, historians have recorded events of the past, either in writing or by passing on an oral tradition , and attempted to answer historical questions through the study of written documents and oral accounts. From the beginning, historians have used such sources as monuments, inscriptions, and pictures. In general, the sources of historical knowledge can be separated into three categories: what is written, what is said, and what is physically preserved, and historians often consult all three.
[28] But writing is the marker that separates history from what comes before.
Archaeology is especially helpful in unearthing buried sites and objects, which contribute to the study of history. Archeological finds rarely stand alone, with narrative sources complementing its discoveries. Archeology's methodologies and approaches are independent from the field of history. "Historical archaeology" is a specific branch of archeology which often contrasts its conclusions against those of contemporary textual sources. For example, Mark Leone, the excavator and interpreter of historical Annapolis, Maryland , US, has sought to understand the contradiction between textual documents idealizing "liberty" and the material record, demonstrating the possession of slaves and the inequalities of wealth made apparent by the study of the total historical environment.
There are varieties of ways in which history can be organized, including chronologically, culturally , territorially, and thematically. These divisions are not mutually exclusive, and significant intersections are present. It is possible for historians to concern themselves with both the very specific and the very general, though the trend has been toward specialization. The area called Big History resists this specialization, and searches for universal patterns or trends. History has often been studied with some practical or theoretical aim, but may be studied out of simple intellectual curiosity.
[29] Prehistory Human history is the memory of the past experience of Homo sapiens sapiens around the world, as that experience has been preserved, largely in written records. By "prehistory", historians mean the recovery of knowledge of the past in an area where no written records exist, or where the writing of a culture is not understood. By studying painting, drawings, carvings, and other artifacts, some information can be recovered even in the absence of a written record. Since the 20th century, the study of prehistory is considered essential to avoid history's implicit exclusion of certain civilizations, such as those of Sub-Saharan Africa and pre-Columbian America. Historians in the West have been criticized for focusing disproportionately on the Western world.
[30] In 1961, British historian E. H. Carr wrote: The line of demarcation between prehistoric and historical times is crossed when people cease to live only in the present, and become consciously interested both in their past and in their future. History begins with the handing down of tradition; and tradition means the carrying of the habits and lessons of the past into the future. Records of the past begin to be kept for the benefit of future generations.
[31] This definition includes within the scope of history the strong interests of peoples, such as Indigenous Australians and New Zealand Māori in the past, and the oral records maintained and transmitted to succeeding generations, even before their contact with European civilization.
Historiography Historiography has a number of related meanings.
[32] Firstly, it can refer to how history has been produced: the story of the development of methodology and practices (for example, the move from short-term biographical narrative toward long-term thematic analysis). Secondly, it can refer to what has been produced: a specific body of historical writing (for example, "medieval historiography during the 1960s" means "Works of medieval history written during the 1960s").
[32] Thirdly, it may refer to why history is produced: the philosophy of history.
 As a meta-level analysis of descriptions of the past, this third conception can relate to the first two in that the analysis usually focuses on the narratives, interpretations, world view , use of evidence, or method of presentation of other historians. Historians debate whether history can be taught as a single coherent narrative or a series of competing narratives.
[33] [34] Methods A depiction of the ancient Library of Alexandria Historical method basics The following questions are used by historians in modern work.
When was the source, written or unwritten, produced ( date )? Where was it produced ( localization )? By whom was it produced ( authorship )? From what pre-existing material was it produced ( analysis )? In what original form was it produced ( integrity )? What is the evidential value of its contents ( credibility )? The first four are known as historical criticism ; the fifth, textual criticism ; and, together, external criticism. The sixth and final inquiry about a source is called internal criticism.
The historical method comprises the techniques and guidelines by which historians use primary sources , and other evidence, to research and write history.
Herodotus , from the 5th-century BC, [35] has been acclaimed as the "father of history". However, his contemporary Thucydides is credited with having first approached history with a well-developed historical method in the History of the Peloponnesian War.
 Thucydides, unlike Herodotus, regarded history as the product of the choices and actions of humans, and looked at cause and effect , rather than the result of divine intervention (though Herodotus was not wholly committed to this idea himself).
[35] In his historical method, Thucydides emphasized chronology, a nominally neutral point of view, and that the human world was the result of human actions. Greek historians viewed history as cyclical , with events regularly recurring.
[36] There was sophisticated use of historical method in ancient and medieval China.
 The groundwork for professional historiography in East Asia was established by court historian Sima Qian (145–90 BC), author of the Records of the Grand Historian ( Shiji ) and posthumously known as the Father of Chinese historiography.
Saint Augustine was influential in Christian and Western thought at the beginning of the medieval period. Through the Medieval and Renaissance periods, history was often studied through a sacred or religious perspective. Around 1800, German philosopher and historian Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel brought philosophy and a more secular approach in historical study.
[29] In the preface to his book, the Muqaddimah (1377), the Arab historian and early sociologist , Ibn Khaldun , warned of 7 mistakes he thought historians committed. In this criticism, he approached the past as strange and in need of interpretation. The originality of Ibn Khaldun was to claim that the cultural difference of another age must govern the evaluation of relevant historical material, to distinguish the principles according to which it might be possible to attempt the evaluation, and to feel the need for experience, in addition to rational principles, in order to assess a culture of the past. Ibn Khaldun criticized "idle superstition and uncritical acceptance of historical data". He introduced a scientific method to the study of history, and referred to it as his "new science".
[37] His method laid the groundwork for the observation of the role of state , communication , propaganda and systematic bias in history, [38] and so is considered to be the "father of historiography" [39] [40] or the "father of the philosophy of history".
[41] In the West, historians developed modern methods of historiography in the 17th and 18th centuries, especially in France and Germany. In 1851, Herbert Spencer summarized these methods:"From the successive strata of our historical deposits, they [historians] diligently gather all the highly colored fragments, pounce upon everything that is curious and sparkling and chuckle like children over their glittering acquisitions; meanwhile the rich veins of wisdom that ramify amidst this worthless debris, lie utterly neglected. Cumbrous volumes of rubbish are greedily accumulated, while those masses of rich ore, that should have been dug out, and from which golden truths might have been smelted, are left untaught and unsought." [42] By the "rich ore" Spencer meant scientific theory of history. Meanwhile, Henry Thomas Buckle expressed a dream of history becoming one day a science: "In regard to nature, events apparently the most irregular and capricious have been explained and have been shown to be in accordance with certain fixed and universal laws. This has been done because men of ability and, above all, men of patient, untiring thought have studied events with the view of discovering their regularity, and if human events were subject to a similar treatment, we have every right to expect similar results.
[43] Contrary to Buckle's dream, the 19th-century historian with greatest influence on methods became Leopold von Ranke in Germany. He limited history to "what really happened" and by this directed the field further away from science. For Ranke, historical data should be collected carefully, examined objectively and put together with critical rigor. But these procedures "are merely the prerequisites and preliminaries of science. The heart of science is searching out order and regularity in the data being examined and in formulating generalizations or laws about them." [44] As Historians like Ranke and many who followed him have pursued it, no , history is not a science. Thus if Historians tell us that, given the manner in which he practices his craft, it cannot be considered a science, we must take him at his word. If he is not doing science, then, whatever else he is doing, he is not doing science. The traditional Historian is thus no scientist and history, as conventionally practiced, is not a science.
[45] In the 20th century, academic historians focused less on epic nationalistic narratives, which often tended to glorify the nation or great men , to more objective and complex analyses of social and intellectual forces. A major trend of historical methodology in the 20th century was to treat history more as a social science rather than art , which traditionally had been the case. Leading advocates of history as a social science were a diverse collection of scholars which included Fernand Braudel and E. H. Carr.
 Many are noted for their multidisciplinary approach e.g. Braudel combined history with geography. Nevertheless, these multidisciplinary approaches failed to produce a theory of history. So far only one theory of history came from a professional historian.
[46] Whatever other theories of history exist, they were written by experts from other fields (for example, Marxian theory of history). The field of digital history has begun to address ways of using computer technology, to pose new questions to historical data and generate digital scholarship.
In opposition to the claims of history as a social science, historians such as Hugh Trevor-Roper argued the key to historians' work was the power of the imagination , and hence contended that history should be understood as art.
French historians associated with the Annales school introduced quantitative history, using raw data to track the lives of typical individuals, and were prominent in the establishment of cultural history (cf.
histoire des mentalités ). Intellectual historians such as Herbert Butterfield have argued for the significance of ideas in history. American historians, motivated by the civil rights era, focused on formerly overlooked ethnic, racial, and socioeconomic groups. A genre of social history to emerge post-WWII was Alltagsgeschichte (History of Everyday Life). Scholars such as Ian Kershaw examined what everyday life was like for ordinary people in 20th-century Germany, especially in Nazi Germany.
Marxist historians sought to validate Karl Marx 's theories by analyzing history from a Marxist perspective. In response to the Marxist interpretation of history, historians such as François Furet have offered anti-Marxist interpretations of history.
Feminist historians argued for the importance of studying the experience of women.
Postmodernists have challenged the validity and need for the study of history on the basis all history is based on the personal interpretation of sources.
Keith Windschuttle 's 1994 book, The Killing of History defended the worth of history.
Today, most historians begin their research in the archives, on either a physical or digital platform. They often propose an argument and use research to support it.
John H. Arnold proposed that history is an argument, which creates the possibility of creating change.
[5] Digital information companies, such as Google , have sparked controversy over the role of internet censorship in information access.
[47] Marxian theory The Marxist theory of historical materialism theorises that society is fundamentally determined by the material conditions at any given time – in other words, the relationships which people have with each other in order to fulfill basic needs such as feeding, clothing and housing themselves and their families.
[48] Overall, Marx and Engels claimed to have identified five successive stages of the development of these material conditions in Western Europe.
[49] Marxist historiography was once orthodoxy in the Soviet Union, but since the communism's collapse there, its influence has significantly reduced.
[50] Potential shortcomings in the production of history Many historians believe that the production of history is embedded with bias because events and known facts in history can be interpreted in a variety of ways.
Constantin Fasolt suggested that history is linked to politics by the practice of silence itself.
[51] He said: "A second common view of the link between history and politics rests on the elementary observation that historians are often influenced by politics." [51] According to Michel-Rolph Trouillot , the historical process is rooted in the archives, therefore silences, or parts of history that are forgotten, may be an intentional part of a narrative strategy that dictates how areas of history are remembered.
[24] Historical omissions can occur in many ways and can have a profound effect on historical records. Information can also purposely be excluded or left out accidentally. Historians have coined multiple terms that describe the act of omitting historical information, including: "silencing", [24] "selective memory", [52] and erasures.
[53] Gerda Lerner , a twentieth century historian who focused much of her work on historical omissions involving women and their accomplishments, explained the negative impact that these omissions had on minority groups.
[52] Environmental historian William Cronon proposed three ways to combat bias and ensure authentic and accurate narratives: narratives must not contradict known fact, they must make ecological sense (specifically for environmental history), and published work must be reviewed by scholarly community and other historians to ensure accountability.
[53] Areas of study Particular studies and fields These are approaches to history; not listed are histories of other fields, such as history of science , history of mathematics and history of philosophy.
Ancient history : the study of history from the beginning of human history until the Early Middle Ages.
Atlantic history : the study of the history of people living on or near the Atlantic Ocean.
Art history : the study of changes in and the social context of art.
Comparative history : the historical analysis of social and cultural entities not confined to national boundaries.
Contemporary history : the study of recent historical events.
Counterfactual history : the study of historical events as they might have happened in different causal circumstances.
Cultural history : the study of culture in the past.
Digital history : the use of computing technologies to do massive searches in published sources.
Economic history : the use of economic models fitted to the past.
Intellectual history : the study of ideas in the context of the cultures that produced them and their development over time.
Maritime history : the study of maritime transport and all connected subjects.
Material history : the study of objects and the stories they can tell.
Modern history : the study of Modern Times, the era after the Middle Ages.
Military history : the study of warfare, historical wars, and Naval history , which is sometimes considered to be a sub-branch of military history.
Oral history : the collection and study of historical information by utilizing spoken interviews with people who have lived past events.
Palaeography : the study of ancient texts.
People's history : historical work from the perspective of common people.
Political history : the study of politics in the past.
Psychohistory : the study of the psychological motivations for historical events.
Pseudohistory : studies about the past that fall outside the domain of mainstream history (sometimes equivalent to pseudoscience ).
Social history : the study of the process of social change throughout history.
Women's history : the history of female human beings.
Gender history is related and covers the perspective of gender.
World history : the study of history from a global perspective, with special attention to non-Western societies.
Periods Historical study often focuses on events and developments that occur in particular blocks of time. Historians give these periods of time names in order to allow "organising ideas and classificatory generalisations" to be used by historians.
[54] The names given to a period can vary with geographical location, as can the dates of the beginning and end of a particular period.
Centuries and decades are commonly used periods and the time they represent depends on the dating system used. Most periods are constructed retrospectively and so reflect value judgments made about the past. The way periods are constructed and the names given to them can affect the way they are viewed and studied.
[55] Prehistoric periodization The field of history generally leaves prehistory to archeologists, who have entirely different sets of tools and theories. In archeology , the usual method for periodization of the distant prehistoric past is to rely on changes in material culture and technology, such as the Stone Age , Bronze Age , and Iron Age , with subdivisions that are also based on different styles of material remains. Here prehistory is divided into a series of "chapters" so that periods in history could unfold not only in a relative chronology but also narrative chronology.
[56] This narrative content could be in the form of functional-economic interpretation. There are periodizations, however, that do not have this narrative aspect, relying largely on relative chronology, and that are thus devoid of any specific meaning.
Despite the development over recent decades of the ability through radiocarbon dating and other scientific methods to give actual dates for many sites or artefacts, these long-established schemes seem likely to remain in use. In many cases neighboring cultures with writing have left some history of cultures without it, which may be used. Periodization, however, is not viewed as a perfect framework, with one account explaining that "cultural changes do not conveniently start and stop (combinedly) at periodization boundaries" and that different trajectories of change need to be studied in their own right before they get intertwined with cultural phenomena.
[57] Geographical locations Particular geographical locations can form the basis of historical study, for example, continents , countries , and cities.
 Understanding why historic events took place is important. To do this, historians often turn to the methods and theory from the discipline of geography.
[58] According to Jules Michelet in his book Histoire de France (1833), "without geographical basis, the people, the makers of history, seem to be walking on air".
[59] Weather patterns, the water supply, and the landscape of a place all affect the lives of the people who live there. For example, to explain why the ancient Egyptians developed a successful civilization, studying the geography of Egypt is essential. Egyptian civilization was built on the banks of the Nile River, which flooded each year, depositing soil on its banks. The rich soil could help farmers grow enough crops to feed the people in the cities. That meant everyone did not have to farm, so some people could perform other jobs that helped develop the civilization. There is also the case of climate , which historians like Ellsworth Huntington and Ellen Churchill Semple cited as a crucial influence on the course of history. Huntington and Semple further argued that climate has an impact on racial temperament.
[60] Regions History of Africa begins with the first emergence of modern human beings on the continent, continuing into its modern present as a patchwork of diverse and politically developing states.
History of the Americas is the collective history of North and South America, including Central America and the Caribbean.
History of North America is the study of the past passed down from generation to generation on the continent in the Earth's northern and western hemisphere.
History of Central America is the study of the past passed down from generation to generation on the continent in the Earth's western hemisphere.
History of the Caribbean begins with the oldest evidence where 7,000-year-old remains have been found.
History of South America is the study of the past passed down from generation to generation on the continent in the Earth's southern and western hemispheres.
History of Antarctica emerges from early Western theories of a vast continent known as Terra Australis, believed to exist in the far south of the globe.
History of Eurasia is the collective history of several distinct peripheral coastal regions: the Middle East, South Asia, East Asia, Southeast Asia, and Europe, linked by the interior mass of the Eurasian steppe of Central Asia and Eastern Europe.
History of Europe describes the passage of time from humans inhabiting the European continent to the present day.
History of Asia can be seen as the collective history of several distinct peripheral coastal regions, East Asia, South Asia, and the Middle East, linked by the interior mass of the Eurasian steppe.
History of East Asia is the study of the past passed down from generation to generation in East Asia.
History of the Middle East begins with the earliest civilizations in the region now known as the Middle East that were established around 3000 BC, in Mesopotamia (Iraq).
History of India is the study of the past passed down from generation to generation in the sub-Himalayan region.
History of Southeast Asia has been characterized as interaction between regional players and foreign powers.
History of Oceania is the collective history of Australia, New Zealand, and the Pacific Islands.
History of Australia starts with the documentation of the Makassar trading with Indigenous Australians on Australia's north coast.
History of New Zealand dates back at least 700 years to when it was discovered and settled by Polynesians, who developed a distinct Māori culture centered on kinship links and land.
History of the Pacific Islands covers the history of the islands in the Pacific Ocean.
Political Political history covers the type of government, the branches of government, leaders, legislation, political activism, political parties, and voting.
Military Military history concerns warfare, strategies, battles, weapons, and the psychology of combat.
[62] The "new military history" since the 1970s has been concerned with soldiers more than generals, with psychology more than tactics, and with the broader impact of warfare on society and culture.
[63] Religious The history of religion has been a main theme for both secular and religious historians for centuries, and continues to be taught in seminaries and academe. Leading journals include Church History , The Catholic Historical Review , and History of Religions.
 Topics range widely from political and cultural and artistic dimensions, to theology and liturgy.
[64] This subject studies religions from all regions and areas of the world where humans have lived.
[65] Social Social history , sometimes called the new social history , is the field that includes history of ordinary people and their strategies and institutions for coping with life.
[66] In its "golden age" it was a major growth field in the 1960s and 1970s among scholars, and still is well represented in history departments. In two decades from 1975 to 1995, the proportion of professors of history in American universities identifying with social history rose from 31% to 41%, while the proportion of political historians fell from 40% to 30%.
[67] In the history departments of British universities in 2007, of the 5723 faculty members, 1644 (29%) identified themselves with social history while political history came next with 1425 (25%).
[68] The "old" social history before the 1960s was a hodgepodge of topics without a central theme, and it often included political movements, like Populism, that were "social" in the sense of being outside the elite system. Social history was contrasted with political history , intellectual history and the history of great men.
 English historian G. M. Trevelyan saw it as the bridging point between economic and political history, reflecting that, "Without social history, economic history is barren and political history unintelligible." [69] While the field has often been viewed negatively as history with the politics left out, it has also been defended as "history with the people put back in".
[70] Subfields The chief subfields of social history include: Black history Demographic history Ethnic history Gender history History of childhood History of education History of the family Labor history LGBT history Rural history Urban history American urban history Women's history Cultural Cultural history replaced social history as the dominant form in the 1980s and 1990s. It typically combines the approaches of anthropology and history to look at language, popular cultural traditions and cultural interpretations of historical experience. It examines the records and narrative descriptions of past knowledge, customs, and arts of a group of people. How peoples constructed their memory of the past is a major topic. Cultural history includes the study of art in society as well is the study of images and human visual production ( iconography ).
[71] Diplomatic Diplomatic history focuses on the relationships between nations, primarily regarding diplomacy and the causes of wars.
[72] More recently it looks at the causes of peace and human rights. It typically presents the viewpoints of the foreign office, and long-term strategic values, as the driving force of continuity and change in history. This type of political history is the study of the conduct of international relations between states or across state boundaries over time. Historian Muriel Chamberlain notes that after the First World War, "diplomatic history replaced constitutional history as the flagship of historical investigation, at once the most important, most exact and most sophisticated of historical studies".
[73] She adds that after 1945, the trend reversed, allowing social history to replace it.
Economic Although economic history has been well established since the late 19th century, in recent years academic studies have shifted more and more toward economics departments and away from traditional history departments.
[74] Business history deals with the history of individual business organizations, business methods, government regulation, labour relations, and impact on society. It also includes biographies of individual companies, executives, and entrepreneurs. It is related to economic history. Business history is most often taught in business schools.
[75] Environmental Environmental history is a new field that emerged in the 1980s to look at the history of the environment, especially in the long run, and the impact of human activities upon it.
[76] It is an offshoot of the environmental movement, which was kickstarted by Rachel Carson's Silent Spring in the 1960s.
World World history is the study of major civilizations over the last 3000 years or so. World history is primarily a teaching field, rather than a research field. It gained popularity in the United States, [77] Japan [78] and other countries after the 1980s with the realization that students need a broader exposure to the world as globalization proceeds.
It has led to highly controversial interpretations by Oswald Spengler and Arnold J. Toynbee , among others.
The World History Association publishes the Journal of World History every quarter since 1990.
[79] The H-World discussion list [80] serves as a network of communication among practitioners of world history, with discussions among scholars, announcements, syllabi, bibliographies and book reviews.
People's A people's history is a type of historical work which attempts to account for historical events from the perspective of common people.
 A people's history is the history of the world that is the story of mass movements and of the outsiders. Individuals or groups not included in the past in other types of writing about history are the primary focus, which includes the disenfranchised , the oppressed , the poor , the nonconformists , and the otherwise forgotten people. The authors are typically on the left and have a socialist model in mind, as in the approach of the History Workshop movement in Britain in the 1960s.
[81] Intellectual Intellectual history and the history of ideas emerged in the mid-20th century, with the focus on the intellectuals and their books on the one hand, and on the other the study of ideas as disembodied objects with a career of their own.
[82] [83] Gender Gender history is a subfield of History and Gender studies , which looks at the past from the perspective of gender.
 The outgrowth of gender history from women's history stemmed from many non- feminist historians dismissing the importance of women in history. According to Joan W. Scott, "Gender is a constitutive element of social relationships based on perceived differences between the sexes, and gender is a primary way of signifying relations of power", [84] meaning that gender historians study the social effects of perceived differences between the sexes and how all genders use allotted power in societal and political structures. Despite being a relatively new field, gender history has had a significant effect on the general study of history. Gender history traditionally differs from women's history in its inclusion of all aspects of gender such as masculinity and femininity, and today's gender history extends to include people who identify outside of that binary.
LGBT history deals with the first recorded instances of same-sex love and sexuality of ancient civilizations , and involves the history of lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender ( LGBT ) peoples and cultures around the world.
[85] Public Public history describes the broad range of activities undertaken by people with some training in the discipline of history who are generally working outside of specialized academic settings. Public history practice has quite deep roots in the areas of historic preservation, archival science, oral history, museum curatorship, and other related fields. The term itself began to be used in the United States and Canada in the late 1970s, and the field has become increasingly professionalized since that time. Some of the most common settings for public history are museums, historic homes and historic sites , parks, battlefields, archives, film and television companies, and all levels of government.
[86] Historians Professional and amateur historians discover, collect, organize, and present information about past events. They discover this information through archeological evidence, written primary sources, verbal stories or oral histories, and other archival material. In lists of historians , historians can be grouped by order of the historical period in which they were writing, which is not necessarily the same as the period in which they specialized.
Chroniclers and annalists , though they are not historians in the true sense, are also frequently included.
Judgement Since the 20th century, Western historians have disavowed the aspiration to provide the "judgement of history".
[87] The goals of historical judgements or interpretations are separate to those of legal judgements , that need to be formulated quickly after the events and be final.
[88] A related issue to that of the judgement of history is that of collective memory.
Pseudohistory Pseudohistory is a term applied to texts which purport to be historical in nature but which depart from standard historiographical conventions in a way which undermines their conclusions. It is closely related to deceptive historical revisionism.
 Works which draw controversial conclusions from new, speculative, or disputed historical evidence, particularly in the fields of national, political, military, and religious affairs, are often rejected as pseudohistory.
Teaching Scholarship vs teaching A major intellectual battle took place in Britain in the early twentieth century regarding the place of history teaching in the universities. At Oxford and Cambridge, scholarship was downplayed. Professor Charles Harding Firth , Oxford's Regius Professor of history in 1904 ridiculed the system as best suited to produce superficial journalists. The Oxford tutors, who had more votes than the professors, fought back in defense of their system saying that it successfully produced Britain's outstanding statesmen, administrators, prelates, and diplomats, and that mission was as valuable as training scholars. The tutors dominated the debate until after the Second World War. It forced aspiring young scholars to teach at outlying schools, such as Manchester University, where Thomas Frederick Tout was professionalizing the History undergraduate programme by introducing the study of original sources and requiring the writing of a thesis.
[89] [90] In the United States, scholarship was concentrated at the major PhD-producing universities, while the large number of other colleges and universities focused on undergraduate teaching. A tendency in the 21st century was for the latter schools to increasingly demand scholarly productivity of their younger tenure-track faculty. Furthermore, universities have increasingly relied on inexpensive part-time adjuncts to do most of the classroom teaching.
[91] Nationalism From the origins of national school systems in the 19th century, the teaching of history to promote national sentiment has been a high priority. In the United States after World War I, a strong movement emerged at the university level to teach courses in Western Civilization, so as to give students a common heritage with Europe. In the U.S. after 1980, attention increasingly moved toward teaching world history or requiring students to take courses in non-western cultures, to prepare students for life in a globalized economy.
[92] At the university level, historians debate the question of whether history belongs more to social science or to the humanities. Many view the field from both perspectives.
The teaching of history in French schools was influenced by the Nouvelle histoire as disseminated after the 1960s by Cahiers pédagogiques and Enseignement and other journals for teachers. Also influential was the Institut national de recherche et de documentation pédagogique (INRDP). Joseph Leif, the Inspector-general of teacher training, said pupils children should learn about historians' approaches as well as facts and dates. Louis François, Dean of the History/Geography group in the Inspectorate of National Education advised that teachers should provide historic documents and promote "active methods" which would give pupils "the immense happiness of discovery". Proponents said it was a reaction against the memorization of names and dates that characterized teaching and left the students bored. Traditionalists protested loudly it was a postmodern innovation that threatened to leave the youth ignorant of French patriotism and national identity.
[93] Bias in school teaching In several countries history textbooks are tools to foster nationalism and patriotism, and give students the official narrative about national enemies.
[94] In many countries, history textbooks are sponsored by the national government and are written to put the national heritage in the most favorable light. For example, in Japan, mention of the Nanking Massacre has been removed from textbooks and the entire Second World War is given cursory treatment. Other countries have complained.
[95] Another example includes Turkey, where there is no mention of the Armenian Genocide in Turkish textbooks as a result of the denial of the genocide.
[96] It was standard policy in communist countries to present only a rigid Marxist historiography.
[97] [98] In the United States , textbooks published by the same company often differ in content from state to state.
[99] An example of content that is represented different in different regions of the country is the history of the Southern states , where slavery and the American Civil War are treated as controversial topics.
McGraw-Hill Education for example, was criticized for describing Africans brought to American plantations as "workers" instead of slaves in a textbook.
[100] Academic historians have often fought against the politicization of the textbooks, sometimes with success.
[101] [102] In 21st-century Germany, the history curriculum is controlled by the 16 states, and is characterized not by superpatriotism but rather by an "almost pacifistic and deliberately unpatriotic undertone" and reflects "principles formulated by international organizations such as UNESCO or the Council of Europe, thus oriented towards human rights, democracy and peace." The result is that "German textbooks usually downplay national pride and ambitions and aim to develop an understanding of citizenship centered on democracy, progress, human rights, peace, tolerance and Europeanness." [103] See also History portal Glossary of history Outline of history References ^.
mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit;word-wrap:break-word}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .citation:target{background-color:rgba(0,127,255,0.133)}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{color:#d33}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#3a3;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit} Joseph, Brian; Janda, Richard, eds. (2008) [2004].
The Handbook of Historical Linguistics.
 Blackwell Publishing. p. 163.
ISBN 978-1405127479.
^ "History Definition".
Archived from the original on 2 February 2014.
 Retrieved 21 January 2014.
^ "What is History & Why Study It?".
 Archived from the original on 1 February 2014.
 Retrieved 21 January 2014.
^ "Prehistory Definition & Meaning".
Dictionary.com.
 Retrieved 6 December 2022.
^ a b Arnold, John H. (2000).
History: A Very Short Introduction.
 New York: Oxford University Press.
ISBN 019285352X.
^ a b Professor Richard J. Evans (2001).
"The Two Faces of E.H. Carr".
History in Focus, Issue 2: What is History?.
 University of London.
Archived from the original on 9 August 2011.
 Retrieved 10 November 2008.
^ Professor Alun Munslow (2001).
"What History Is".
History in Focus, Issue 2: What is History?.
 University of London.
Archived from the original on 9 August 2011.
 Retrieved 10 November 2008.
^ Tosh, John (2006).
The Pursuit of History (4th ed.). Pearson Education Limited. p. 52.
ISBN 978-1405823517.
^ Stearns, Peter N.; Seixas, Peter Carr; Wineburg, Samuel S.
(2000).
Knowing, teaching, and learning history : national and international perspectives.
 Internet Archive.
New York University Press.
 p. 6.
ISBN 978-0814781418.
^ Nash l, Gary B. (2000).
"The "Convergence" Paradigm in Studying Early American History in Schools".
 In Peter N. Stearns; Peters Seixas; Sam Wineburg (eds.).
Knowing Teaching and Learning History, National and International Perspectives.
 New York & London: New York University Press. pp.
102–115.
ISBN 0814781411.
^ Seixas, Peter (2000).
"Schweigen! die Kinder!".
 In Peter N. Stearns; Peters Seixas; Sam Wineburg (eds.).
Knowing Teaching and Learning History, National and International Perspectives.
 New York & London: New York University Press. p.
24.
ISBN 978-0814781418.
^ Lowenthal, David (2000).
"Dilemmas and Delights of Learning History".
 In Peter N. Stearns; Peters Seixas; Sam Wineburg (eds.).
Knowing Teaching and Learning History, National and International Perspectives.
 New York & London: New York University Press. p.
63.
ISBN 978-0814781418.
^ Halsall, Paul.
"Ancient History Sourcebook: 11th Brittanica: Herodotus".
Internet History Sourcebooks Project.
 Fordham University.
Archived from the original on 27 November 2020.
 Retrieved 3 December 2020.
^ Vives, Juan Luis; Watson, Foster (1913).
Vives, on education : a translation of the De tradendis disciplinis of Juan Luis Vives.
 Robarts – University of Toronto. Cambridge : The University Press.
^ Juan Luis Vives (1551).
Ioannis Ludouici Viuis Valentini, De disciplinis libri 20. in tres tomos distincti, quorum ordinem versa pagella iudicabit. Cum indice copiosissimo (in Latin). National Central Library of Rome. apud Ioannem Frellonium.
^ Majoros, Sotirios (2019).
All About Me: The Individual.
 FriesenPress.
ISBN 978-1525558016.
Archived from the original on 30 July 2022.
 Retrieved 10 May 2022.
^ ἱστορία ^ a b Ferrater-Mora, José.
Diccionario de Filosofia.
 Barcelona: Editorial Ariel, 1994.
^ a b c "history, n". OED Online. Oxford University Press, December 2014. 9 March 2015.
^ Cf. "history, n." OED Online. Oxford University Press, December 2014. 9 March 2015.
^ Whitney, W.D.
The Century dictionary; an encyclopedic lexicon of the English language Archived 2 February 2021 at the Wayback Machine.
 New York: The Century Co, 1889.
^ W.D. Whitney, (1889).
The Century dictionary; an encyclopedic lexicon of the English language Archived 2 February 2021 at the Wayback Machine.
p. 2842 Archived 20 January 2021 at the Wayback Machine.
^ WordNet Search – 3.0 Archived 17 September 2005 at the Wayback Machine , "History".
^ a b c Trouillot, Michel-Rolph (1995). "The Three Faces of Sans Souci: The Glories and the Silences in the Haitian Revolution".
Silencing the Past: Power and the Production of History.
 Boston: Beacon Press. pp. 31–69.
ASIN B00N6PB6DG.
^ Gordon, Scott; Irving, James Gordon (1991).
The History and Philosophy of Social Science.
 Routledge. p. 1.
ISBN 0415056829.
^ Ritter, H. (1986). Dictionary of concepts in history. Reference sources for the social sciences and humanities, no. 3. Westport, Conn: Greenwood Press. p. 416.
^ Appelrouth, Scott; Edles, Laura Desfor (2010).
Sociological Theory in the Contemporary Era: Text and Readings.
 Pine Forge Press.
ISBN 978-1412987615.
Archived from the original on 30 July 2022.
 Retrieved 20 July 2022.
^ Lemon, Michael C. (1995).
The Discipline of History and the History of Thought.
 Routledge. p. 201.
ISBN 0415123461.
^ a b Graham, Gordon (1997). "Chapter 1".
The Shape of the Past.
University of Oxford.
^ Jack Goody (2007) The Theft of History Archived 15 September 2015 at the Wayback Machine (from Google Books ) ^ Carr, Edward H. (1961).
What is History?.
 Penguin Books. p. 108.
ISBN 0140206523.
^ a b "What is Historiography? – Culturahistorica.org".
Archived from the original on 27 January 2021.
 Retrieved 20 January 2021.
^ Ernst Breisach, Historiography: Ancient, medieval, and modern (University of Chicago Press, 2007).
^ Georg G. Iggers, Historiography in the twentieth century: From scientific objectivity to the postmodern challenge (2005).
^ a b Lamberg-Karlovsky, C.C.; Jeremy A. Sabloff (1979).
Ancient Civilizations: The Near East and Mesoamerica.
 Benjamin-Cummings Publishing. p. 5.
ISBN 978-0881338348.
^ Lamberg-Karlovsky, C.C.; Jeremy A. Sabloff (1979).
Ancient Civilizations: The Near East and Mesoamerica.
 Benjamin-Cummings Publishing. p. 6.
ISBN 978-0881338348.
^ Ibn Khaldun ; Rosenthal, Franz; Dawood, N.J. (1967).
The Muqaddimah: An Introduction to History.
Princeton University Press.
 p. x.
ISBN 0691017549.
^ H. Mowlana (2001). "Information in the Arab World", Cooperation South Journal 1.
^ Ahmed, Salahuddin (1999).
A Dictionary of Muslim Names.
 C. Hurst & Co. Publishers.
ISBN 1850653569.
^ Enan, Muhammed Abdullah (2007).
Ibn Khaldun: His Life and Works.
 The Other Press. p. v.
ISBN 978-9839541533.
^ S.W. Akhtar (1997). "The Islamic Concept of Knowledge", Al-Tawhid: A Quarterly Journal of Islamic Thought & Culture 12 (3).
^ Cited in Robert Carneiro , The Muse of History and the Science of Culture , New York: Kluwer Publishers, 2000, p 160.
^ Cited in Muse of History , pp. 158–159.
^ Muse of History , p 147.
^ Muse of History , p 150.
^ Max Ostrovski, The Hyperbole of the World Order , Lanham: Rowman & Littlefield, 2006.
^ King, Michelle T. (2016). "Working With/In the Archives".
Research Methods for History (2nd ed.). Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
^ See, in particular, Marx and Engels, The German Ideology Archived 22 October 2017 at the Wayback Machine ^ Marx makes no claim to have produced a master key to history. Historical materialism is not "an historico-philosophic theory of the marche generale imposed by fate upon every people, whatever the historic circumstances in which it finds itself" (Marx, Karl: Letter to editor of the Russian paper Otetchestvennye Zapiskym , 1877). His ideas, he explains, are based on a concrete study of the actual conditions that pertained in Europe.
^ Mikhail M. Krom, "From the Center to the Margin: the Fate of Marxism in Contemporary Russian Historiography", Storia della Storiografia (2012) Issue 62, pp. 121–130 ^ a b Fasolt, Constantin (2004).
The Limits of History.
 Chicago: University of Chicago Press. pp. xiii–xxi.
ISBN 0226239101.
^ a b Lerner, Gerda (1997).
Why History Matters: Life and Thought.
 New York: Oxford University Press. pp. 199–211.
ISBN 0195046447.
^ a b Cronon, William (1992). "A Place for Stories: Nature, History, and Narrative".
The Journal of American History.
78 (4): 1347–1376.
doi : 10.2307/2079346.
JSTOR 2079346.
^ Marwick, Arthur (1970).
The Nature of History.
 The Macmillan Press LTD. p. 169.
^ Tosh, John (2006).
The Pursuit of History.
 Pearson Education Limited. pp. 168–169.
^ Lucas, Gavin (2005).
The Archaeology of Time.
 Oxon: Routledge. p. 50.
ISBN 0415311977.
^ Arnoldussen, Stijn (2007).
A Living Landscape: Bronze Age Settlement Sites in the Dutch River Area (c. 2000–800 BC).
 Leiden: Sidestone Press. p. 468.
ISBN 978-9088900105.
^ Bryce, James (1902). "The Importance of Geography in Education".
The Geographical Journal.
23 (3): 29–32.
doi : 10.2307/1775737.
JSTOR 1775737.
^ Darby, Henry Clifford (2002).
The Relations of History and Geography: Studies in England, France and the United States.
 Exeter: University of Exeter Press. p. 14.
ISBN 978-0859896993.
^ Rao, B.V. (2007).
World history from early times to AD 2000.
 New Delhi: Sterling Publishers Pvt. Ltd. p. 5.
ISBN 978-8120731882.
^ Schwarcz, Lilia Moritz (1998).
As barbas do imperador : D. Pedro II, um monarca nos trópicos.
 São Paulo: Companhia das Letras. p. 181.
ISBN 85-7164-837-9.
^ Howard, Michael; Bond, Brian; Stagg, J. C. A.; Chandler, David; Best, Geoffrey; Terrine, John (1988).
"What is Military History … ?".
What is History Today … ?.
 pp. 4–17.
doi : 10.1007/978-1-349-19161-1_2.
ISBN 978-0333422267.
S2CID 156592827.
Archived from the original on 9 June 2018.
 Retrieved 20 January 2021.
{{ cite book }} : |website= ignored ( help ) ^ Pavkovic, Michael; Morillo, Stephen (2006).
What is Military History?.
 Oxford: Polity Press. pp. 3–4.
ISBN 978-0745633909.
^ Cochrane, Eric (1975). "What Is Catholic Historiography?".
Catholic Historical Review.
61 (2): 169–190.
JSTOR 25019673.
^ For example, see Gajano, Sofia Boesch; Caliò, Tommaso (1998). "Italian Religious Historiography in the 1990s".
Journal of Modern Italian Studies.
3 (3): 293–306.
doi : 10.1080/13545719808454982.
^ Peter Stearns, ed.
Encyclopedia of Social History (1994) ^ Diplomatic dropped from 5% to 3%, economic history from 7% to 5%, and cultural history grew from 14% to 16%. Based on full-time professors in U.S. history departments.
Haber, Stephen H.; Kennedy, David M.; Krasner, Stephen D. (1997). "Brothers under the Skin: Diplomatic History and International Relations".
International Security.
22 (1). p. 42.
doi : 10.1162/isec.22.1.34.
JSTOR 2539326.
S2CID 57570041.
^ "Teachers of History in the Universities of the UK 2007 – listed by research interest".
 Archived from the original on 30 May 2006.
^ G.M. Trevelyan (1973). "Introduction".
English Social History: A Survey of Six Centuries from Chaucer to Queen Victoria.
 Book Club Associates. p. i.
ISBN 978-0582484887.
^ Mary Fulbrook (2005). "Introduction: The people's paradox".
The People's State: East German Society from Hitler to Honecker.
 London: Yale University Press.
 p. 17.
ISBN 978-0300144246.
^ The first World Dictionary of Images: Laurent Gervereau (ed.), "Dictionnaire mondial des images", Paris, Nouveau monde, 2006, 1120 p.
ISBN 978-2847361858.
 (with 275 specialists from all continents, all specialities, all periods from Prehistory to nowadays); Laurent Gervereau, "Images, une histoire mondiale", Paris, Nouveau monde, 2008, 272 p.
[ ISBN missing ] ^ Watt, D. C.; Adams, Simon; Bullen, Roger; Brauer, Kinley; Iriye, Akira (1988).
"What is Diplomatic History … ?".
What is History Today … ?.
 pp. 131–142.
doi : 10.1007/978-1-349-19161-1_12.
ISBN 978-0333422267.
Archived from the original on 28 January 2021.
 Retrieved 20 January 2021.
{{ cite book }} : |website= ignored ( help ) ^ Muriel E Chamberlain, Pax Britannica'? British Foreign Policy 1789–1914 (1988) p. 1 ^ Robert Whaples, "Is Economic History a Neglected Field of Study?", Historically Speaking (April 2010) v. 11#2 pp. 17–20, with responses pp. 20–27 ^ Franco Amatori, and Geoffrey Jones, eds.
Business History Around the World (2003) online edition Archived 19 June 2009 at the Wayback Machine ^ J.D. Hughes, What is Environmental History (2006) excerpt and text search Archived 22 April 2016 at the Wayback Machine ^ Ainslie Embree and Carol Gluck, eds., Asia in Western and World History: A Guide for Teaching (M.E. Sharpe, 1997) ^ Shigeru Akita, "World History and the Emergence of Global History in Japan", Chinese Studies in History , Spring 2010, Vol. 43 Issue 3, pp. 84–96 ^ "Journal of World History".
 Archived from the original on 1 May 2011.
 Retrieved 7 February 2011.
^ "H-World".
www.h-net.org.
Archived from the original on 10 March 2011.
 Retrieved 7 February 2011.
^ Wade Matthews (2013).
The New Left, National Identity, and the Break-up of Britain.
 Brill. pp. 20–21.
ISBN 978-9004253070.
Archived from the original on 28 September 2020.
 Retrieved 8 May 2016.
^ Grafton, Anthony (2006).
"The History of Ideas: Precept and Practice, 1950–2000 and beyond" (PDF).
Journal of the History of Ideas.
67 (1): 1–32.
doi : 10.1353/jhi.2006.0006.
S2CID 143746040.
Archived (PDF) from the original on 3 June 2016.
 Retrieved 6 December 2015.
^ Horowitz, Maryanne Cline, ed. (2004).
New Dictionary of the History of Ideas.
 Vol. 6.
^ Wallach Scott, Joan (1988). "Gender: A Useful Category of Analysis".
Gender and the Politics of History.
 New York: Columbia University Press. pp. 28–50.
ISBN 0231188013.
^ "History of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Social Movements".
www.apa.org.
Archived from the original on 11 January 2021.
 Retrieved 20 January 2021.
^ Glassberg, David (1996).
"Public History and the Study of Memory".
The Public Historian.
18 (2): 7–23.
doi : 10.2307/3377910.
JSTOR 3377910.
^ Curran, Vivian Grosswald (2000) Herder and the Holocaust: A Debate About Difference and Determinism in the Context of Comparative Law in F.C. DeCoste, Bernard Schwartz (eds.) Holocaust's Ghost: Writings on Art, Politics, Law and Education pp. 413–415 Archived 12 September 2015 at the Wayback Machine ^ Curran, Vivian Grosswald (2000) Herder and the Holocaust: A Debate About Difference and Determinism in the Context of Comparative Law in F.C. DeCoste, Bernard Schwartz (eds.) Holocaust's Ghost: Writings on Art, Politics, Law and Education p. 415 Archived 12 September 2015 at the Wayback Machine ^ Ivan Roots, "Firth, Sir Charles Harding (1857–1936)", Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (Oxford University Press, 2004) Online; accessed 10 Nov 2014 Archived 30 July 2022 at the Wayback Machine ^ Reba Soffer , "Nation, duty, character and confidence: history at Oxford, 1850–1914." Historical Journal (1987) 30#01 pp. 77–104.
^ Frank Donoghue, The Last Professors: The Corporate University and the Fate of the Humanities (2008) ^ Jacqueline Swansinger, "Preparing Student Teachers for a World History Curriculum in New York", History Teacher , (November 2009), 43#1 pp. 87–96 ^ Abby Waldman, " The Politics of History Teaching in England and France during the 1980s", History Workshop Journal Issue 68, Autumn 2009 pp. 199–221 online ^ Jason Nicholls, ed.
School History Textbooks across Cultures: International Debates and Perspectives (2006) ^ Claudia Schneider, "The Japanese History Textbook Controversy in East Asian Perspective", Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science , May 2008, Vol. 617, pp. 107–122 ^ Guillory, John (2015).
The Common Core and the Evasion of Curriculum (vol 130 ed.). PMLA. pp. 666–672.
^ "Problems of Teaching Contemporary Russian History", Russian Studies in History , Winter 2004, Vol. 43 Issue 3, pp. 61–62 ^ Wedgwood Benn, David (2008). "Blackwell-Synergy.com".
International Affairs.
84 (2): 365–370.
doi : 10.1111/j.1468-2346.2008.00708.x.
^ Goldstein, Dana (12 January 2020).
"Two States. Eight Textbooks. Two American Stories".
The New York Times.
Archived from the original on 5 May 2020.
 Retrieved 5 May 2020.
^ Fernandez, Manny; Hauser, Christine (5 October 2015).
"Texas Mother Teaches Textbook Company a Lesson on Accuracy".
The New York Times.
Archived from the original on 15 July 2018.
 Retrieved 14 July 2018.
^ "Teaching History in Schools: the Politics of Textbooks in India", History Workshop Journal , April 2009, Issue 67, pp. 99–110 ^ Tatyana Volodina, "Teaching History in Russia After the Collapse of the USSR", History Teacher , February 2005, Vol. 38 Issue 2, pp. 179–188 ^ Simone Lässig and Karl Heinrich Pohl, "History Textbooks and Historical Scholarship in Germany", History Workshop Journal Issue 67, Spring 2009 pp. 128–129 online at project MUSE Further reading Norton, Mary Beth ; Gerardi, Pamela, eds. (1995).
The American Historical Association's Guide to Historical Literature (3rd ed.). Oxford U.P; Annotated guide to 27,000 of the most important English language history books in all fields and topics.
Benjamin, Jules R. (2009).
A Student's Guide to History.
Carr, E.H. (2001).
What is History?.
 With a new introduction by Richard J. Evans. Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
ISBN 0333977017.
Cronon, William (2013).
"Storytelling".
American Historical Review.
118 (1): 1–19.
doi : 10.1093/ahr/118.1.1.
Archived from the original on 23 July 2016.
 Retrieved 24 July 2016 ; Discussion of the impact of the end of the Cold War upon scholarly research funding, the impact of the Internet and Wikipedia on history study and teaching, and the importance of storytelling in history writing and teaching.
Evans, Richard J. (2000).
In Defence of History.
 W.W. Norton & Company.
ISBN 0393319598.
Furay, Conal; Salevouris, Michael J. (2010).
The Methods and Skills of History: A Practical Guide.
Kelleher, William (2008).
Writing History: A Guide for Students ; excerpt and text search.
Lingelbach, Gabriele (2011).
"The Institutionalization and Professionalization of History in Europe and the United States".
The Oxford History of Historical Writing.
 Vol. 4: 1800–1945. Oxford University Press. pp. 78–.
ISBN 978-0199533091.
Archived from the original on 15 September 2015.
 Retrieved 2 July 2015.
Presnell, Jenny L. (2006).
The Information-Literate Historian: A Guide to Research for History Students ; excerpt and text search.
Tosh, John (2006).
The Pursuit of History.
 Pearson Longman.
ISBN 1405823518.
Woolf, D.R. (1998).
A Global Encyclopedia of Historical Writing.
 Vol. 2. Garland Reference Library of the Humanities; excerpt and text search.
Williams, H.S., ed. (1907).
The Historians' History of the World.
 Vol. Book 1.
Archived from the original on 15 September 2015.
 Retrieved 2 July 2015 ; This is Book 1 of 25 Volumes.
Schwarcz, Lilia Moritz (1998).
As barbas do imperador: D. Pedro II, um monarca nos trópicos (in Portuguese). São Paulo: Companhia das Letras.
ISBN 85-7164-837-9.
External links Official website of BestHistorySites Official website of BBC History Internet History Sourcebooks Project See also Internet History Sourcebooks Project (Collections of public domain and copy-permitted historical texts for educational use).
mw-parser-output .navbar{display:inline;font-size:88%;font-weight:normal}.mw-parser-output .navbar-collapse{float:left;text-align:left}.mw-parser-output .navbar-boxtext{word-spacing:0}.mw-parser-output .navbar ul{display:inline-block;white-space:nowrap;line-height:inherit}.mw-parser-output .navbar-brackets::before{margin-right:-0.125em;content:"[ "}.mw-parser-output .navbar-brackets::after{margin-left:-0.125em;content:" ]"}.mw-parser-output .navbar li{word-spacing:-0.125em}.mw-parser-output .navbar a>span,.mw-parser-output .navbar a>abbr{text-decoration:inherit}.mw-parser-output .navbar-mini abbr{font-variant:small-caps;border-bottom:none;text-decoration:none;cursor:inherit}.mw-parser-output .navbar-ct-full{font-size:114%;margin:0 7em}.mw-parser-output .navbar-ct-mini{font-size:114%;margin:0 4em} v t e Historiography Historians list Historical method History historians historicity history theories of history Historical sources Types Primary sources Secondary sources Tertiary sources Sources Annals Archives Artifacts Archaeological site Chronicles Codices Deeds Facsimiles Features Hieroglyphs Historical documents Logbooks Manuscripts Oral tradition Papyri Religious texts Scrolls War diaries Service records Fields of study By scale Big History World history Human history Local history Microhistory By source Archival science / Library and information science ( template ) Books / Writing systems Chorography Chronology dating Diplomatics Encyclopaedistics Epigraphy Genealogy Heraldry Numismatics (Money) Onomastics Oral history preservation Phaleristics Philology Postage stamps Prosopography Sigillography Toponymy Vexillology By topic Anthropology / Paleoanthropology Cultural Ecology / Environment / Geography Economic Business Capitalism Thought Intellectual Linguistics Medieval churches Military Political Constitutional Diplomatic Social Feminism Gender Indigenous Labour LGBT Rural Urban Women Methodology Case study Periodization Historical eras Tarikh Three-age system Approaches, schools Annales school History of mentalities Nouvelle histoire Historiometry / Cliometrics Critical Feminist Great Man theory Historical anthropology Historical determinism Historism Historical-critical method Humanistic Leninist Marxist Historical materialism Nationalist Nationalization of history People's history Subaltern Studies Pop history Quantitative history Revisionist Whig Concepts General Change and continuity Historic preservation Historic recurrence Historical significance Historicity Specific Black legend Coloniality and decolonization of knowledge Dark Ages Historical negationism Historian's fallacy / Presentism Invented tradition Modernisation theory Paradigm shift Pax list Thirty-year rule Translatio imperii / Translatio studii Vaticinium ex eventu Periodization of modern history Age of Discovery Age of Enlightenment European Civil War / Second Thirty Years' War Long 18th / 19th century Renaissance Continuity thesis By country or region Africa Ethiopia Rwanda Double genocide theory Americas Canada Residential schools Indigenous population history Latin America Argentina May Revolution / Causes Colonial Spanish America Casta United States African-American history Nadir of American race relations Reconstruction era Consensus history Frontier thesis Political history Eras Progressive-era historians Eurasia Albania Austria Habsburg Myth Balhae Bulgaria France French Revolution / Causes Grand Siècle Georgia Aryan Kartli Hellenic Ages of Man India Iran 2,500-year celebration of the Persian Empire Iranian Revolution causes Ireland Great Famine " More Irish than the Irish themselves " Revolutionary period Italy Risorgimento Japan Korea Nationalist North Macedonia Philippines Early settlements Poland Partitions Romania Great Union Serbia Soviet Union October Revolution Switzerland Turkey Kemalist Ottoman Empire Vietnam Nam tiến Trưng sisters Ancient Rome Catilinarian conspiracy Christianization Constantinian shift Expansion Fall of Western Rome Prosopography Succession Byzantine succession Moscow, third Rome Ottoman claim Problem of two emperors China Archaeology Century of humiliation Conquest dynasty Golden ages Hua–Yi distinction Four Barbarians Self-Strengthening Movement Sprouts of capitalism Germany Alltagsgeschichte Borussian myth Historikerstreit Sonderweg Strukturgeschichte [ de ] Vergangenheitsbewältigung Spain Black legend / White legend Carlism in the Francoist era Convivencia Inquisition Reconquista United Kingdom British Empire Porter–MacKenzie debate Second colonial occupation Poor Laws Scotland Origins of the Kingdom of Alba Westminster Stone Storm over the gentry Suffragette Campaign Tudor myth Ricardians Winter of Discontent Oceania Colonial Australia By war, conflict 1948 Arab–Israeli War Palestinian expulsion and flight Algerian War American Civil War Origins Burning of Smyrna Cold War Crusades Islamic views Eighty Years' War Origins Fall of Babylon Franco-Prussian War Causes Paris Commune Gallic Wars Great Game Indian Rebellion of 1857 Causes Late Bronze Age collapse Sea Peoples Napoleonic Wars Invasion of Russia Waterloo Paraguayan War Peloponnesian War Polish–Soviet War Causes Syrian revolution War in the Vendée War of 1812 Origins World War I Causes Fischer thesis Color books Late Ottoman genocides Armenian genocide Persian famine of 1917–1919 Schlieffen Plan Treaty of Versailles Reparations War guilt question Article 231 Reichstag inquiry World War II Causes "Blitzkrieg" concept Broad vs. narrow front German resistance to Nazism Nazi foreign policy debate Eastern Front Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact Soviet offensive plans Soviets and the Warsaw Uprising Volhynia massacres The Holocaust Auschwitz bombing debate Awareness in Nazi Germany and German-occupied Europe Functionalism–intentionalism debate Pius Wars "Polish death camp" Responsibility Slovakia Uniqueness Pacific War Atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki "Battle for Australia" Bengal famine Second Sino-Japanese War Nanjing Massacre Western Front Battle of France Guilty Men Résistancialisme By person Political leaders Adolf Hitler Alexander the Great Amin al-Husseini Aurangzeb Cato the Younger Che Guevara Constantine the Great Horatio Nelson Hypatia José de San Martín Juan Manuel de Rosas Klemens von Metternich Leonid Brezhnev Louis Riel Muammar Gaddafi Napoleon Neville Chamberlain Pedro II of Brazil Saladin Thomas Jefferson Ulysses S. Grant Warren G. Harding Historical rankings Australia Canada Modern Germany Netherlands United Kingdom United States Others The Beatles Charles Darwin Friedrich Nietzsche H. P. Lovecraft Jane Austen Jesus J. R. R. Tolkien The Lord of the Rings Madonna Robert Falcon Scott Socrates Søren Kierkegaard William Shakespeare Other topics Economics Great Recession Great Depression Religion Avestan geography Early Christianity Background Early Islam Kharijites Science / Technology Conflict thesis Heroic theory of invention and scientific development Gunpowder and gun transmission Bears in antiquity Feudalism Library of Alexandria Nationalism in the Middle Ages Professionalization and institutionalization of history Salons The Simpsons Western European colonialism and colonization Organizations, institutes Heritage registers Historical society ( list ) History institutes Related Commemorative plaque Documentary film Hagiography Historical fiction Historical realism Historical geographic information system Category Multimedia v t e Time Key concepts Past Present Future Eternity Measurement and standards Chronometry UTC UT TAI Unit of time Orders of magnitude (time) Measurement systems Italian six-hour clock Thai six-hour clock 12-hour clock 24-hour clock Relative hour Daylight saving time Chinese Decimal Hexadecimal Hindu Metric Roman Sidereal Solar Time zone Calendars Main types Solar Lunar Lunisolar Gregorian Julian Hebrew Islamic Solar Hijri Chinese Hindu Panchang Maya List Clocks Main types astronomical astrarium atomic quantum hourglass marine sundial watch mechanical stopwatch water-based Cuckoo clock Digital clock Grandfather clock History Timeline Chronology History Astronomical chronology Big History Calendar era Deep time Periodization Regnal year Timeline Philosophy of time A series and B series B-theory of time Chronocentrism Duration Endurantism Eternal return Eternalism Event Perdurantism Presentism Temporal finitism Temporal parts The Unreality of Time Religion Mythology Ages of Man Destiny Immortality Dreamtime Kāla Time and fate deities Father Time Wheel of time Kalachakra Human experience and use of time Chronemics Generation time Mental chronometry Music tempo time signature Rosy retrospection Tense–aspect–mood Time discipline Time management Yesterday – Today – Tomorrow Time in science Geology Geological time age chron eon epoch era period Geochronology Geological history of Earth Physics Absolute space and time Arrow of time Chronon Coordinate time Instant Proper time Spacetime Theory of relativity Time domain Time translation symmetry Time reversal symmetry Other fields Chronological dating Chronobiology Circadian rhythms Clock reaction Glottochronology Time geography Related Memory Moment Space System time Tempus fugit Time capsule Time immemorial Time travel Category Commons v t e Humanities Anthropology Digital humanities History Law Literature Performing arts Politics Philosophy Religious studies Visual arts v t e Social sciences Outline History Index Primary Anthropology ( archaeology cultural social physical/biological ) Economics ( microeconomics macroeconomics econometrics mathematical ) Geography physical human technical integrated History cultural auxiliary sciences economic human military political social Law ( jurisprudence legal history legal systems public law private law ) Linguistics ( semiotics ) Political science ( international relations comparative theory public policy public administration ) Psychology ( abnormal cognitive developmental personality social ) Sociology ( criminology demography internet rural urban ) Interdisciplinary Administration ( business public ) Anthrozoology Area studies Business studies Cognitive science Communication studies Community studies Criminology Cultural studies Development studies Education Environmental ( social science studies ) Food studies Gender studies Global studies Historical sociology History of technology Human ecology Information science International studies Linguistics Management Media studies Philosophy of science ( economics history psychology social science ) Planning ( land use regional urban ) Political ecology Political economy Political sociology Public health Regional science Science and technology studies Science studies historical Quantum social science Social work Vegan studies List List of social science journals Other categorizations Behavioral sciences Geisteswissenschaft Human science Humanities Category Commons Society portal Wikiversity v t e Chronology Key topics Archaeology Astronomy Geology History Big History Paleontology Time Periods Eras Epochs Calendar eras Human Era Ab urbe condita Anno Domini / Common Era Anno Mundi Bosporan era Bostran era Byzantine era Seleucid era Era of Caesar (Iberia) Before present Hijri Egyptian Sothic cycle Hindu units of time ( Yuga ) Mesoamerican Long Count Short Count Tzolk'in Haab' Regnal year Anka year Canon of Kings English and British regnal year Lists of kings Limmu Era names Chinese Japanese Korean Vietnamese Calendars Pre-Julian / Julian Pre-Julian Roman Original Julian Proleptic Julian Revised Julian Gregorian Gregorian Proleptic Gregorian Old Style and New Style dates Adoption of the Gregorian calendar Dual dating Astronomical Lunisolar ( Hebrew , Hindu ) Solar Lunar ( Islamic ) Astronomical year numbering Others Chinese sexagenary cycle Geologic Calendar Iranian ISO week date Mesoamerican Maya Aztec Winter count New Earth Time Astronomic time Cosmic Calendar Ephemeris Galactic year Metonic cycle Milankovitch cycles Geologic time Concepts Deep time Geological history of Earth Geological time units Standards Global Standard Stratigraphic Age (GSSA) Global Boundary Stratotype Section and Point (GSSP) Methods Chronostratigraphy Geochronology Isotope geochemistry Law of superposition Luminescence dating Samarium–neodymium dating Chronological dating Absolute dating Amino acid racemisation Archaeomagnetic dating Dendrochronology Ice core Incremental dating Lichenometry Paleomagnetism Radiometric dating Lead–lead Potassium–argon Radiocarbon Uranium–lead Tephrochronology Luminescence dating Thermoluminescence dating Relative dating Fluorine absorption Nitrogen dating Obsidian hydration Seriation Stratigraphy Genetic methods Molecular clock Linguistic methods Glottochronology Related topics Chronicle New Chronology Synchronoptic view Timeline Year zero Floruit Terminus post quem ASPRO chronology v t e Theories of history Annales Conceptual Cultural Economic Environmental Gender Historicism Marxist Macrohistory Microhistory Postcolonial Politics Postmodern Psychohistory Social List of historians History Big History v t e Historiography Historians list Historical method History historians historicity history theories of history Historical sources Types Primary sources Secondary sources Tertiary sources Sources Annals Archives Artifacts Archaeological site Chronicles Codices Deeds Facsimiles Features Hieroglyphs Historical documents Logbooks Manuscripts Oral tradition Papyri Religious texts Scrolls War diaries Service records Fields of study By scale Big History World history Human history Local history Microhistory By source Archival science / Library and information science ( template ) Books / Writing systems Chorography Chronology dating Diplomatics Encyclopaedistics Epigraphy Genealogy Heraldry Numismatics (Money) Onomastics Oral history preservation Phaleristics Philology Postage stamps Prosopography Sigillography Toponymy Vexillology By topic Anthropology / Paleoanthropology Cultural Ecology / Environment / Geography Economic Business Capitalism Thought Intellectual Linguistics Medieval churches Military Political Constitutional Diplomatic Social Feminism Gender Indigenous Labour LGBT Rural Urban Women Methodology Case study Periodization Historical eras Tarikh Three-age system Approaches, schools Annales school History of mentalities Nouvelle histoire Historiometry / Cliometrics Critical Feminist Great Man theory Historical anthropology Historical determinism Historism Historical-critical method Humanistic Leninist Marxist Historical materialism Nationalist Nationalization of history People's history Subaltern Studies Pop history Quantitative history Revisionist Whig Concepts General Change and continuity Historic preservation Historic recurrence Historical significance Historicity Specific Black legend Coloniality and decolonization of knowledge Dark Ages Historical negationism Historian's fallacy / Presentism Invented tradition Modernisation theory Paradigm shift Pax list Thirty-year rule Translatio imperii / Translatio studii Vaticinium ex eventu Periodization of modern history Age of Discovery Age of Enlightenment European Civil War / Second Thirty Years' War Long 18th / 19th century Renaissance Continuity thesis By country or region Africa Ethiopia Rwanda Double genocide theory Americas Canada Residential schools Indigenous population history Latin America Argentina May Revolution / Causes Colonial Spanish America Casta United States African-American history Nadir of American race relations Reconstruction era Consensus history Frontier thesis Political history Eras Progressive-era historians Eurasia Albania Austria Habsburg Myth Balhae Bulgaria France French Revolution / Causes Grand Siècle Georgia Aryan Kartli Hellenic Ages of Man India Iran 2,500-year celebration of the Persian Empire Iranian Revolution causes Ireland Great Famine " More Irish than the Irish themselves " Revolutionary period Italy Risorgimento Japan Korea Nationalist North Macedonia Philippines Early settlements Poland Partitions Romania Great Union Serbia Soviet Union October Revolution Switzerland Turkey Kemalist Ottoman Empire Vietnam Nam tiến Trưng sisters Ancient Rome Catilinarian conspiracy Christianization Constantinian shift Expansion Fall of Western Rome Prosopography Succession Byzantine succession Moscow, third Rome Ottoman claim Problem of two emperors China Archaeology Century of humiliation Conquest dynasty Golden ages Hua–Yi distinction Four Barbarians Self-Strengthening Movement Sprouts of capitalism Germany Alltagsgeschichte Borussian myth Historikerstreit Sonderweg Strukturgeschichte [ de ] Vergangenheitsbewältigung Spain Black legend / White legend Carlism in the Francoist era Convivencia Inquisition Reconquista United Kingdom British Empire Porter–MacKenzie debate Second colonial occupation Poor Laws Scotland Origins of the Kingdom of Alba Westminster Stone Storm over the gentry Suffragette Campaign Tudor myth Ricardians Winter of Discontent Oceania Colonial Australia By war, conflict 1948 Arab–Israeli War Palestinian expulsion and flight Algerian War American Civil War Origins Burning of Smyrna Cold War Crusades Islamic views Eighty Years' War Origins Fall of Babylon Franco-Prussian War Causes Paris Commune Gallic Wars Great Game Indian Rebellion of 1857 Causes Late Bronze Age collapse Sea Peoples Napoleonic Wars Invasion of Russia Waterloo Paraguayan War Peloponnesian War Polish–Soviet War Causes Syrian revolution War in the Vendée War of 1812 Origins World War I Causes Fischer thesis Color books Late Ottoman genocides Armenian genocide Persian famine of 1917–1919 Schlieffen Plan Treaty of Versailles Reparations War guilt question Article 231 Reichstag inquiry World War II Causes "Blitzkrieg" concept Broad vs. narrow front German resistance to Nazism Nazi foreign policy debate Eastern Front Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact Soviet offensive plans Soviets and the Warsaw Uprising Volhynia massacres The Holocaust Auschwitz bombing debate Awareness in Nazi Germany and German-occupied Europe Functionalism–intentionalism debate Pius Wars "Polish death camp" Responsibility Slovakia Uniqueness Pacific War Atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki "Battle for Australia" Bengal famine Second Sino-Japanese War Nanjing Massacre Western Front Battle of France Guilty Men Résistancialisme By person Political leaders Adolf Hitler Alexander the Great Amin al-Husseini Aurangzeb Cato the Younger Che Guevara Constantine the Great Horatio Nelson Hypatia José de San Martín Juan Manuel de Rosas Klemens von Metternich Leonid Brezhnev Louis Riel Muammar Gaddafi Napoleon Neville Chamberlain Pedro II of Brazil Saladin Thomas Jefferson Ulysses S. Grant Warren G. Harding Historical rankings Australia Canada Modern Germany Netherlands United Kingdom United States Others The Beatles Charles Darwin Friedrich Nietzsche H. P. Lovecraft Jane Austen Jesus J. R. R. Tolkien The Lord of the Rings Madonna Robert Falcon Scott Socrates Søren Kierkegaard William Shakespeare Other topics Economics Great Recession Great Depression Religion Avestan geography Early Christianity Background Early Islam Kharijites Science / Technology Conflict thesis Heroic theory of invention and scientific development Gunpowder and gun transmission Bears in antiquity Feudalism Library of Alexandria Nationalism in the Middle Ages Professionalization and institutionalization of history Salons The Simpsons Western European colonialism and colonization Organizations, institutes Heritage registers Historical society ( list ) History institutes Related Commemorative plaque Documentary film Hagiography Historical fiction Historical realism Historical geographic information system Category Multimedia sister projects Definitions from Wiktionary Media from Commons News from Wikinews Quotations from Wikiquote Texts from Wikisource Textbooks from Wikibooks Resources from Wikiversity Data from Wikidata Authority control databases International FAST National Spain 2 France BnF data Germany Israel United States Latvia Japan Czech Republic 2 Other Encyclopedia of Modern Ukraine Historical Dictionary of Switzerland NARA İslâm Ansiklopedisi History Humanities Main topic articles CS1 Latin-language sources (la) Articles containing Ancient Greek (to 1453)-language text Webarchive template wayback links CS1 errors: periodical ignored Pages with missing ISBNs Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages Use dmy dates from May 2022 Use American English from May 2022 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Wikipedia articles needing clarification from February 2023 CS1: long volume value CS1 Portuguese-language sources (pt) Official website not in Wikidata Pages using Sister project links with hidden wikidata Articles with FAST identifiers Articles with BNE identifiers Articles with BNF identifiers Articles with BNFdata identifiers Articles with GND identifiers Articles with J9U identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Articles with LNB identifiers Articles with NDL identifiers Articles with NKC identifiers Articles with EMU identifiers Articles with HDS identifiers Articles with NARA identifiers Articles with TDVİA identifiers Use dmy dates from January 2020 Use Oxford spelling from August 2016 This page was last edited on 12 October 2023, at 00:42 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0 ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
 Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc.
, a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Toggle limited content width
