old id = 691
Tech Policy Lab | University of Washington
2013
https://techpolicylab.uw.edu

Tech Policy Lab University of Washington Join Our Mailing List Toggle navigation MENU MENU About Our Impact Our People Our Funders Research Policy Tools Diverse Voices Global Summit Tech Policy Breakdowns Emerging Technology Augmented Reality Artificial Intelligence and Robots AI and Cybersecurity AI and Social Impacts AI and Robotics DNA Security Internet of Things IoT Security and Privacy Materiality Toys That Listen Contexts Cities Home Individuals Education Publications & Resources Events News Tech Policy Lab The Tech Policy Lab is a unique, interdisciplinary collaboration at the University of Washington that aims to enhance technology policy through research, education, and thought leadership. Founded in 2013 by faculty from the University’s Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering, Information School, and School of Law, the Lab aims to bridge the gap between technologists and policymakers and to help generate wiser, more inclusive tech policy.
FEATURED WAYS TO GROW: New Directions for Agricultural Technology Policy Distinguished Lecture Series Distinguished Lecture with Danielle Citron | The Fight for Privacy: Protecting Dignity, Identity, and Love in the Digital Age Danielle Citron is the Jefferson Scholars Foundation Schenck Distinguished Professor in Law and Caddell and Chapman Professor of Law at the University of Virginia, where she writes and teaches about privacy, free expression and civil rights. Her scholarship and advocacy have been recognized nationally and internationally.
Tech Talk with Barry Friedman: Keeping Personal Data Safe From Law Enforcement Barry Friedman serves as the Faculty Director of the Policing Project at New York University School of Law, where he is the Jacob D. Fuchsberg Professor of Law and Affiliated Professor of Politics. Professor Friedman visited the University of Washington School of Law to discuss the growing network of police surveillance and the confrontation between constitutional rights and mass government surveillance.
Hacking Elections: A Conversation with Matt Tait On November 28th, 2018 cybersecurity expert and former British intelligence officer Matt Tait gave the Tech Policy Lab's Distinguished Lecture on foreign interference with the midterm elections.
More Taking Care: Code and Control in a Technological Future | Taeyoon Choi Taeyoon Choi is an artist, organizer, teacher and cofounder of the School for Poetic Computation, an artist-run school in New York City with a motto of “More Poetry, Less Demo.” More AI Now: Social and Political Questions for Artificial Intelligence | Kate Crawford In March 2018, Kate Crawford gave the Tech Policy Lab’s Spring Distinguished Lecture on “AI Now: Social and Political Questions for Artificial Intelligence.” More Poison Arrows and Other ‘Killer Apps’: A Hunter-Gatherer Perspective on Tech and our Future | James Suzman In November 2017, James Suzman joined the Tech Policy Lab to give our fall Distinguished Lecture on “Poison Arrows and Other ‘Killer Apps’: A Hunter-Gatherer Perspective on Tech and our Future.” More My Politics as a Technologist | Terry Winograd and Alan Borning On November 30, 2016 the Tech Policy Lab organized a discussion at the intersection of personal politics and technical expertise with Terry Winograd and Alan Borning.
More How Technology Impacts Humans | Latanya Sweeney In December 2016, the Lab's Fall Distinguished Lecture was given by renowned technologist and former Chief Technologist for the Federal Trade Commission, Professor Latanya Sweeney.
More Deterrence in the 21st Century: From Nuclear, To Space, To Cyberspace | General Kevin Chilton In April 2016, General Kevin Chilton gave the Tech Policy Lab's Spring Distinguished Lecture on Deterrence in the 21st Century: From Nuclear, To Space, To Cyberspace.
More Responsible Innovation in the Age of Robots and Smart Machines | Jeroen van den Hoven In December 2014, Jeroen van den Hoven gave the Tech Policy Lab's Distinguished Lecture on Responsible Innovation in the Age of Robots and Smart Machines.
More Funding & Disclosures | Privacy | Contact © 2023 Tech Policy Lab | University of Washington
