old id = 2383
Books | Resources | Greater Good
2013
https://greatergood.berkeley.edu/resources/books

Greater Good Science Center • Magazine • In Action • In Education Log in Register Become a Member nav menu Topics Mind & Body Relationships Workplace Parenting & Family Education MORE...
Quizzes Purpose in Life Happiness at Work Social Capital Connection to Humanity Altruism Gratitude Emotional Intelligence MORE...
Videos Climate, Hope & Science: The Science of Happiness podcast Happiness Break Greater Good Books Dear Greater Good Bridging Differences MORE...
Podcasts Climate, Hope & Science: The Science of Happiness podcast Happiness Break The Science of Happiness Keys to Well-Being Awe Bridging Differences Compassion Empathy Diversity Gratitude Happiness Intellectual Humility Mindfulness Purpose Social Connection MORE...
Search search TOPICS Mind & Body Relationships Workplace Parenting & Family Education Spirituality Politics Society Culture Media & Tech Community Big Ideas KEYS TO WELL-BEING Altruism Awe Bridging Differences Compassion Empathy Diversity Forgiveness Gratitude Happiness Intellectual Humility Mindfulness Purpose Social Connection RESOURCES Quizzes Podcasts Videos Books Studies Donate Events & Classes About Diversity Statement Masthead Contact Log in Register Scroll To Top BOOKS Check out these books from the Greater Good Science Center, as well as other noteworthy titles on subjects explored by the GGSC.
Topics Authors All Greater Good Books Awe Compassion Empathy Fairness Altruism Forgiveness Gratitude Happiness Love Mindfulness Social Connections All A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Scared Sick: The Role of Childhood Trauma in Adult Disease By Robin Karr-Morse Basic Books, 2012, 301 pages Robin Karr-Morse illuminates how the stress of early childhood trauma can hurt your health later in life.
The Happiness of Pursuit: What Neuroscience Can Teach Us About the Good Life By Shimon Edelman Basic Books, 2012, 256 pages Shimon Edelman portrays happiness as a pursuit, since the underlying brain process that support it are constantly in flux.
Living in Gratitude: A Journey That Will Change Your Life By Angeles Arrien Sounds True Press, 2011, 274 pages Angeles Arrien explains the benefits of gratitude and offers a month-by-month set of gratitude practices.
The Forgiving Life: A Pathway to Overcoming Resentment and Creating a Legacy of Love By Robert Enright APA Press, 2012, 371 pages Robert Enright explains how to forgive others and why forgiveness is so beneficial.
Beautiful Souls: Saying No, Breaking Ranks, and Heeding the Voice of Conscience in Dark Times By Eyal Press Farrar, Straus, and Giroux, 2012, 196 pages Eyal Press tells the heroic stories of individuals who held to their convictions and behaved with compassion in difficult circumstances.
Imagine: How Creativity Works By Jonah Lehrer Houghton Mifflin, 2012, 279 pages Jonah Lehrer argues that creativity isn't a gift of the lucky few, but a variety of thought processes we can all learn to cultivate.
Healing the Angry Brain By Ronald Potter-Efron New Harbinger, 2012, 172 pages Ronald Potter-Efron reveals how understanding the way your brain works can help you control anger and aggression.
Compassion, Inc.
By Mara Einstein University of California Press, 2012, 240 pages Mara Einstein explores what happens when corporations turn compassion into a commodity.
Talking Back to Facebook: The Common Sense Guide to Raising Kids in the Digital Age By James P. Steyer Scribner, 2012, 224 pages James Steyer outlines some of the risks involved in online use and what parents can do about them.
How to Bullyproof Your Classroom By Caltha Crowe Northeast Foundation for Children, 2012, 267 pages Caltha Crowe offers teachers positive ways to create a classroom of caring and prevent bullying.
Rainy Brain, Sunny Brain By Elaine Fox Basic Books, 2012, 206 pages Elaine Fox explores what makes you optimistic or pessimistic—and how to build optimism as a skill.
What Money Can’t Buy: The Moral Limits of Markets By Michael Sandel Farrar, Straus, and Giroux, 2012, 256 pages Michael Sandel argues that markets have a place—but it's not in hospitals, daycare centers, schools, or families.
Dreamland: Adventures in the Strange Science of Sleep By David K. Randall W. W. Norton & Company, 2012, 304 pages David K. Randall reveals the scientific and personal importance of sleep—and provides some tips to get more of it.
The 7 Laws of Magical Thinking: How Irrational Beliefs Keep Us Happy, Healthy, and Sane By Matthew Hutson Hudson Street Press, 2012, 296 pages Matthew Hutson argues that humans have evolved for superstition—and that it can benefit our mental and physical health.
Teach Your Children Well: Parenting for Authentic Success By Madeline Levine Harper Collins, 2012, 323 pages Madeline Levine helps parents avoid pushing their kids toward extreme achievement and (the consequences of that approach).
The Moral Molecule: The Source of Love and Prosperity By Paul J. Zak Dutton, 2012, 256 pages Paul Zak argues that the success of an economic system may lie with trust—and the hormone oxytocin.
How Children Succeed: Grit, Curiosity, and the Hidden Power of Character By Paul Tough Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2012, 231 pages Tough makes the case that character traits such as grit, curiosity, conscientiousness, and optimism are more vital to success than IQ.
Far From the Tree: Parents, Children and the Search for Identity By Andrew Solomon Scribner, 2012, 976 pages Andrew Solomon explores extreme differences between parents and children—and how we can find meaning in life's most difficult experiences.
A Mindful Nation By Tim Ryan Hay House, 2012, 203 pages Tim Ryan shows how mindfulness can help us with both our individual struggles and our societal problems.
The Righteous Mind: Why Good People Are Divided by Politics and Religion By Jonathan Haidt Pantheon, 2012, 448 pages Jonathan Haidt explains where moral judgments come from and how this creates conflicts around politics and religion.
The Storytelling Animal: How Stories Make Us Human By Jonathan Gotschall Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2012, 272 pages Jonathan Gotschall shows how stories may serve an evolutionary purpose by helping us navigate our complex social world.
Search Inside Yourself: The Unexpected Path to Achieving Success, Happiness (and World Peace) By Chade-Meng Tan HarperOne, 2012, 288 pages Chade-Meng Tan explains how to enhance mindfulness and emotional intelligence in life and work.
Wellbeing in the Primary Classroom: A Practical Guide to Teaching Happiness By Adrian Bethune Bloomsbury Education, 2018, 224 pages Adrian Bethune offers a guide for supporting the mental and emotional well-being of primary school students.
The Emotional Life of Your Brain By Richard Davidson and Sharon Begley Avery, 2012, 304 pages Richard Davidson and Sharon Begley reveal the six neurological dimensions that are most influential on our health and happiness.
Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can’t Stop Talking By Susan Cain Crown, 2012, 352 pages Susan Cain reveals the often-overlooked benefits of introversion, like creativity, innovation, and perseverance.
Moral Origins: The Evolution of Virtue, Altruism, and Shame By Christopher Boehm Basic Books, 2012, 432 pages Christopher Boehm offers a new evolutionary theory about how humans developed altruism and a conscience.
Mindful Birthing: Training the Mind, Body, and Heart for Childbirth and Beyond By Nancy Bardacke HarperOne, 2012, 384 pages Nancy Bardacke argues that mindfulness can help women (and their partners) navigate pregnancy and childbirth.
Peace in the Heart and Home By Charlette Mikulka Kittacanoe Press, 2011, 312 pages Charlette Mikulka explains how to reduce stress and use mind-body techniques to manage the emotional challenges of family life.
Happier at Home By Gretchen Rubin Harmony, 2012, 288 pages Gretchen Rubin chronicles her experiments aimed at boosting happiness in her family relationships, possessions, and time at home.
Subliminal: How Your Unconscious Mind Rules Your Behavior By Leonard Mlodinow Pantheon, 2012, 272 pages Leonard Mlodinow illustrates how unconscious processes shape our experiences and relationships.
Resilience: Why Things Bounce Back By Andrew Zolli and Ann Marie Healy Free Press, 2012, 336 pages Andrew Zolli and Ann Marie Healy reveal eight principles of resilience that help us heal and reorganize in the face of adversity.
Wait: The Art and Science of Delay By Frank Partnoy PublicAffairs, 2012, 304 pages Frank Partnoy explains why people who master the art of waiting and delayed gratification are often more successful in life.
Incognito: The Secret Lives of the Brain By David Eagleman Vintage, 2012, 304 pages David Eagleman shows how our subconscious mind filters reality for us, affecting what we perceive and how we behave.
The Little Book of Heartbreak: Love Gone Wrong Through the Ages By Meghan Laslocky Plume, 2012, 272 pages Meghan Laslocky explores what heartbreak looks like throughout history, in art, and in the brain.
The Social Neuroscience of Education: Optimizing Attachment and Learning in the Classroom By Louis Cozolino W. W. Norton & Company, 2013, 440 pages Louis Cozolino explains how our social brains work and how teachers can apply this knowledge to benefit student learning.
The Myths of Happiness By Sonja Lyubomirsky Penguin Press, 2013, 320 pages Sonja Lyubomirsky explains the common but mistaken assumptions that get in our way when we're trying to become happier.
Sticks and Stones By Emily Bazelon Random House, 2013, 386 pages Emily Bazelon explores bullying among kids—and finds the solution in fostering empathy among both kids and adults.
Executive Function & Child Development By Marcie Yeager and Daniel Yeager W. W. Norton & Company, 2013, 272 pages Marcie Yeager and Daniel Yeager explain how to help kids mature and improve their executive functioning without relying on punishments.
Ecoliterate: How Educators Are Cultivating Emotional, Social, and Ecological Intelligence By Daniel Goleman, Lisa Bennett, and Zenobia Barlow Jossey-Bass, 2012, 192 pages Daniel Goleman, Lisa Bennett, and Zenobia Barlow explain how educators can teach kids to care deeply about the environment.
Give and Take: Why Helping Others Drives Our Success By Adam Grant Viking Press, 2013, 320 pages Adam Grant argues that giving to others is a key strategy for success in business as well as in life.
World Peace and Other 4th-Grade Achievements By John Hunter Eamon Dolan/Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2013, 272 pages John Hunter shares lessons learned from teaching his World Peace Game, where students use collaboration to solve big global problems.
Pieces of Light: How the New Science of Memory Illuminates the Stories We Tell About Our Pasts By Charles Fernyhough Harper, 2012, 305 pages Charles Fernyhough provides an overview of how memory works and debunks misconceptions about it.
Mastermind: How to Think Like Sherlock Holmes By Maria Konnikova Viking, 2013, 273 pages Maria Konnikova explains the neuroscience of clear thinking, astute observation, problem solving, and creative insight.
99 Blessings: An Invitation to Life By Brother David Steindl-Rast Image, 2013, 128 pages Brother David Steindl-Rast, a Benedictine monk, offers a collection of prayers for people of all faiths.
Mindful Compassion By Paul Gilbert and Choden New Harbinger Publications, 2014, 384 pages Paul Gilbert and Choden highlight how mindfulness can help improve social relationships and nurture compassion toward oneself and others.
Happy Money: The Science of Smarter Spending By Elizabeth Dunn and Michael Norton Simon & Schuster, 2013, 224 pages Elizabeth Dunn and Michael Norton explain how money can make you happier if you spend it the right way.
Mind Whispering: A New Map to Freedom from Self-Defeating Emotional Habits By Tara Bennett-Goleman HarperOne, 2013, 336 pages Tara Bennett-Goleman applies mindfulness to overcoming self-defeating habits of mind and improving our relationships.
When Will My Grown-Up Kid Grow Up?: Loving and Understanding Your Emerging Adult By Jeffrey Arnett and Elizabeth Fishel Workman Publishing Company, 2013, 304 pages Jeffrey Arnett and Elizabeth Fishel explore how to parent today's young adults, who are struggling to become established and independent.
Animal Wise: The Thoughts and Emotions of Our Fellow Creatures By Virginia Morell Crown, 2013, 304 pages Virginia Morell travels around the world and meets researchers who are discovering that animals can think and feel much as humans can.
The SharpBrains Guide to Brain Fitness: How to Optimize Brain Health and Performance at Any Age By Alvaro Fernandez and Elkhonon Goldberg SharpBrains, Inc, 2013, 284 pages Alvaro Fernandez and Elkhonon Goldberg explore how to optimize brain health through all the stages of life.
Love 2.0: How Our Supreme Emotion Affects Everything We Feel, Think, Do, and Become By Barbara Fredrickson Avery, 2013, 256 pages Fredrickson argues that love exists in micro-moments of connection and can be consciously cultivated in every sphere of life.
What Makes a Hero?: The Surprising Science of Selflessness By Elizabeth Svoboda Current (the Penguin Group), 2013, 225 pages Elizabeth Svoboda explores what prompts people to act altruistically and how to make heroic action more likely.
Emotional Readiness: How Early Experience and Mental Health Predict School Success By Terrie Rose CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform, 2013, 252 pages Terrie Rose argues that we should focus more on young kids' emotional skills rather than academics.
Hardwiring Happiness: The New Brain Science of Contentment, Calm, and Confidence By Rick Hanson Harmony, 2013, 304 pages Rick Hanson explains how to turn momentary positive experiences into lasting inner strengths in our brains.
What Doctors Feel: How Emotions Affect the Practice of Medicine By Danielle Ofri Beacon Press, 2013, 224 pages Danielle Ofri illustrates the challenges doctors face in managing their emotions under life-and-death circumstances.
Ungifted: Intelligence Redefined By Scott Barry Kaufman Basic Books, 2013, 397 pages Scott Barry Kaufman argues that other factors, besides IQ, are important in academic success and in life.
Moral Tribes: Emotion, Reason, and the Gap Between Us and Them By Joshua Greene Penguin Press, 432 pages, 2013 Joshua Greene explains why we disagree on moral issues and how to transcend our differences to find solutions to big problems.
Focus: The Hidden Driver of Excellence By Daniel Goleman Harper, 2013, 320 pages Daniel Goleman argues that focus leads to greater happiness, better relationships, and increased productivity.
Social: Why Our Brains Are Wired to Connect By Matthew Lieberman Crown, 2013, 374 pages Matthew Lieberman shows how central social connection is to our lives (and brains), and what that means for our well-being.
Just Babies: The Origins of Good and Evil By Paul Bloom Crown, 2013, 288 pages Paul Bloom argues that we are born with a bias toward goodness and connection with others.
Bouncing Back: Rewiring Your Brain for Maximum Resilience and Well-Being By Linda Graham New World Library, 2013, 431 pages Linda Graham shows us how to handle adversity in a more positive and resilient way.
The Bonobo and the Atheist By Frans de Waal W. W. Norton & Company, 2013, 304 pages Frans de Waal argues that moral behavior is part of our evolutionary heritage, not predicated on religion.
The Myths of Happiness By Sonja Lyubomirsky Penguin Press, 2013, 320 pages Sonja Lyubomirsky explains how understanding our misconceptions about happiness can ultimately lead to a rich and meaningful life.
The Tell: The Little Clues That Reveal Big Truths about Who We Are By Matthew Hertenstein Basic Books, 2013, 268 pages Matthew Hertenstein explores how powerful the human mind can be at gaining split-second information from nonverbal cues.
Scarcity: Why Having Too Little Means So Much By Sendhil Mullainathan and Eldar Shafir Times Books, 2013, 304 pages Sendhil Mullainathan and Eldar Shafir explain the drawbacks of a scarcity mindset for our brains and how to overcome it.
Profit from the Positive By Margaret Greenberg and Senia Maymin McGraw-Hill Education, 2013, 256 pages Margaret Greenberg and Senia Maymin explain how businesses can succeed by focusing on strengths, opportunities, aspirations, and results.
Practicing Positive Leadership: Tools and Techniques That Create Extraordinary Results By Kim Cameron Berrett-Koehler Publishers, 2013, 208 pages Kim Cameron identifies four main strategies to help organizations flourish: positive social climate, relationships, communication, and meaning.
Love Sense: The Revolutionary New Science of Romantic Relationships By Sue Johnson Little, Brown and Company, 2013, 352 pages Sue Johnson outlines the benefits of loving relationships throughout our lives and offers practical tips for couples.
Friendfluence: The Surprising Ways Friends Make Us Who We Are By Carlin Flora Anchor, 2013, 288 pages Carlin Flora maps the different forms of friendship and shows how friends impact our health and happiness.
Compassion: Bridging Practice and Science By Tania Singer and Matthias Bolz 2013 Tania Singer and Matthias Bolz summarize what we know about compassion and how it can be trained.
All Joy and No Fun: The Paradox of Modern Parenthood By Jennifer Senior Ecco, 2014, 308 pages Jennifer Senior explores why contemporary parenthood can be so stressful—and at the same time so meaningful.
Mindwise: How We Understand What Others Think, Believe, Feel, and Want By Nicholas Epley Knopf, 2014, 242 pages Nicholas Epley illustrates the mistakes we often make when trying to understand and empathize with other people.
The App Generation By Howard Gardner and Katie Davis Yale University Press, 2013, 256 pages Howard Gardner and Katie Davis explore how apps are shaping young people's lives for better and worse.
Thrive: The Third Metric to Redefining Success and Creating a Life of Well-Being, Wisdom, and Wonder By Arianna Huffington Harmony, 2014, 352 pages Arianna Huffington attempts to redefine success as well-being rather than power or money—and shares her efforts to pursue it.
Making Grateful Kids: The Science of Building Character By Jeffrey Froh and Giacomo Bono Templeton Press, 2014, 264 pages Jeffrey Froh and Giacomo Bono argue that parents can foster gratitude in kids—but it takes effort and time.
The Truth About Trust: How It Determines Success in Life, Love, Learning, and More By David DeSteno Hudson Street Press, 266 pages, 2014 David DeSteno argues that it's hard to tell who is trustworthy—or when to trust ourselves—at any given moment.
Ha!: The Science of When We Laugh and Why By Scott Weems Basic Books, 2014, 230 pages Scott Weems explains what humor is, how things become funny, and why evolution gave us laughter.
Mindful Discipline: A Loving Approach to Setting Limits and Raising an Emotionally Intelligent Child By Shauna Shapiro and Chris White New Harbinger, 2014, 199 pages Shauna Shapiro and Chris White explain how parents can combine firm boundaries with loving connection.
The Way of Mindful Education: Cultivating Well-Being in Teachers and Students By Daniel Rechtschaffen W. W. Norton, 2014, 318 pages Daniel Rechtschaffen explains how to create a mindful classroom, including sample lessons and curricula.
Why Won’t My Teenager Talk to Me? By John Coleman Routledge, 2014, 158 pages John Coleman explains the many reasons why teens seem to shut down, and how to get them to open up.
Brainstorm: The Power and Purpose of the Teenage Brain By Daniel Siegel TarcherPerigee, 2014, 336 pages Daniel Siegel reveals how the brain changes during adolescence and how we can celebrate and support teen development.
The Myth of the Spoiled Child: Challenging the Conventional Wisdom about Children and Parenting By Alfie Kohn DeCapo Press, 2014, 268 pages Alfie Kohn questions the idea that today's kids are more spoiled and narcissistic than previous generations.
Supersurvivors: The Surprising Link Between Suffering and Success By David Feldman and Lee Daniel Kravetz HarperWave, 2014, 241 pages David Feldman and Lee Daniel Kravetz explain why some people seem to bounce back and even excel after trauma.
Powers of Two: How Relationships Drive Creativity By Joshua Wolf Shenk Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2014, 368 pages Joshua Wolf Shenk argues that creativity is often a social endeavor, rather than the work of a lone genius.
The Good Life: Wellbeing and the New Science of Altruism, Selfishness, and Immorality By Graham Music Routledge, 2014, 243 pages Graham Music explores what we know about human nature and the role of the environment in shaping our moral character.
The Upside of Your Dark Side By Todd B. Kashdan and Robert Biswas-Diener Avery, 2014, 304 pages Kashdan and Biswas-Diener show that emotions like anger, anxiety, guilt, and sadness can be useful.
Age of Opportunity: Lessons from the New Science of Adolescence By Laurence Steinberg Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2014, 272 pages Steinberg argues that America’s approach to raising adolescents misunderstands the science of teen development.
8 Keys to End Bullying: Strategies for Parents & Schools (8 Keys to Mental Health) By Signe Whitson W. W. Norton & Company, 2014, 240 pages Whitson synthesizes what we know about bullying into simple, targeted strategies for educators, professionals, and parents.
Teach, Breathe, Learn: Mindfulness In and Out of the Classroom By Meena Srinivasan Parallax Press, 2014, 224 pages Srinivasan highlights how mindfulness can be an effective tool in the classroom for teachers and students.
Sitting Together: Essential Skills for Mindfulness-Based Psychotherapy By Susan Pollak, Thomas Pedulla, and Ronald Siegel The Guilford Press, 2014, 240 pages Pollak, Pedulla, and Siegel help therapists choose and adapt mindfulness practices for their patients.
The Invisible Classroom: Relationships, Neuroscience & Mindfulness in School By Kirke Olson W. W. Norton & Company, 2014, 232 pages Olson helps teachers understand the neurobiological, emotional, and social factors that underlie their students’ school experiences.
Survival of the Nicest: How Altruism Made Us Human and Why It Pays to Get Along By Stefan Klein The Experiment, 2014, 272 pages Klein argues that selflessness, not selfishness, creates more genetic success—a challenge to the “survival of the fittest” model in evolution.
The Interpersonal Neurobiology of Play: Brain-Building Interventions for Emotional Well-Being By Theresa A. Kestly W. W. Norton & Company, 2014, 240 pages Kestly teaches therapists about the neurobiology of play so they can offer the benefits of play therapy to clients.
It’s Complicated: The Social Lives of Networked Teens By danah boyd Yale University Press, 2014, 296 pages boyd uncovers the myths and portrays the reality of teens' lives on social media.
Kitty Genovese: The Murder, the Bystanders, the Crime that Changed America By Kevin Cook W. W. Norton & Company, 2014, 256 pages Cook uncovers the true story of Kitty Genovese's murder, the crime that led to the bystander effect theory.
Positive Computing: Technology for Wellbeing and Human Potential By Rafael A. Calvo and Dorian Peters The MIT Press, 2014, 298 pages Calvo and Peters investigate "positive computing," the design and development of technology to support psychological well-being and human potential.
Is That Me Yelling?: A Parent’s Guide to Getting Your Kids to Cooperate Without Losing Your Cool By Rona Renner New Harbinger Publications, 2014, 224 pages Rona Renner offers effective communication strategies—tailored to your child's temperament—to help improve their behavior.
Empathy: Why It Matters, and How to Get It By Roman Krznaric TarcherPerigee, 2014, 272 pages Roman Krznaric outlines the six habits of highly empathic people, which can help us be happier, more creative, and more connected.
Rethinking Positive Thinking: Inside the New Science of Motivation By Gabriel Oettingen R2014, Current, 219 pages Gabriel Oettingen debunks the myth that positive thinking—or daydreaming and wishful thinking—can make you successful.
Awakening Joy: 10 Steps to Happiness By James Baraz Parallax Press, 2012, 336 pages James Baraz teaches practices that will bring you more happiness, resilience, and joy, inspired by Buddhist philosophy.
Neurobiology and the Development of Human Morality: Evolution, Culture, and Wisdom By Darcia Narvaez W. W. Norton & Company, 2014, 456 pages Darcia Narvaez offers an alternative vision of moral development and flourishing that takes into account bottom-up biological and cultural influences.
Chasing the Scream: The First and Last Days of the War on Drugs By Johann Hari Bloomsbury USA, 2015, 400 pages Johann Hari goes on a journey to discover what really causes addiction and what really solves it.
The Opposite of Spoiled: Raising Kids Who Are Grounded, Generous, and Smart About Money By Ron Lieber Harper, 2015, 256 pages Ron Lieber explains how parents can teach their kids to have a healthier relationship with money.
The Best Place to Work: The Art and Science of Creating an Extraordinary Workplace By Ron Friedman Perigree, 2014, 352 pages Ron Friedman provides leaders and employees with useful tips for restructuring work environments to increase innovation, efficiency, and joy.
Driven to Distraction at Work: How to Focus and Be More Productive By Edward Hallowell Harvard Business Review, 2015, 247 pages Edward Hallowell explains why we get so distracted at work—and how we can become more focused and productive.
Mindful Work: How Meditation Is Changing Business from the Inside Out By David Gelles Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2015, 296 pages David Gelles uncovers how mindfulness meditation is going mainstream in large and small organizations around the country.
Mindfulness for Teachers: Simple Skills for Peace and Productivity in the Classroom By Patricia Jennings WW Norton, 2015, 288 pages Patricia Jennings explains how mindfulness can help teachers manage stress, enhance the classroom environment, and improve teaching and learning.
Touch: The Science of Hand, Heart, and Mind By David Linden Viking, 2015, 261 pages David Linden explores the science of touch, and finds that it is inextricably linked to how we feel and communicate.
Does Altruism Exist?: Culture, Genes, and the Welfare of Others By David Sloan Wilson Yale University Press, 2015, 192 pages David Sloan Wilson argues that it is group needs, not individual intention and virtue, that drive altruism.
Surprise: Embrace the Unpredictable and Engineer the Unexpected By Tania Luna and Leeann Renninger Perigee, 2015, 272 pages Tania Luna and Leeann Renninger explore the science and practice of engineering surprise—at work, at home, and in our relationships.
Caring Economics By Tania Singer and Mattheiu Ricard Picador, 2015, 240 pages Tania Singer and Mattheiu Ricard bring together economists, scientists, and Buddhists to explore the spiritual dimensions of the economy.
Changing Your Company from the Inside Out: A Guide for Social Intrapreneurs By Gerald Davis and Christopher White Harvard Business Review, 2015, 224 pages Gerald Davis and Christopher White explains how to move your organization in a more socially and environmentally responsible direction.
The Brain’s Way of Healing By Norman Doidge Viking, 2015, 432 pages Norman Doidge explores the frontiers of treatment for conditions like autism, chronic pain, and depression that harness the brain's neuroplasticity.
The Power of Ideals: The Real Story of Moral Choice By William Damon and Anne Colby Oxford University Press, 2015, 217 pages William Damon and Anne Colby argue that morality is dependent on conscious, deliberate processes rather than emotions.
The Working Dad’s Survival Guide: How to Succeed at Work and at Home By Scott Behson Motivational Press, 2015, 308 pages Scott Behson provides advice to busy fathers who want to pursue their careers and be loving, involved, hands-on dads.
A Force for Good: The Dalai Lama’s Vision for Our World By Daniel Goleman Bantam, 2015, 272 pages Daniel Goleman translates the Dalai Lama’s vision for a compassionate world and explores the science behind it.
The Well-Tuned Brain: Neuroscience and the Life Well Lived By Peter Whybrow W. W. Norton & Company, 2015, 400 pages Peter Whybrow explains why we sometimes act against our best interests—and what we can do to change course.
The Mindful Teen: Powerful Skills to Help You Handle Stress One Moment at a Time By Dzung Vo New Harbinger, 2015, 230 pages Dzung Vo tries to introduce teens to mindfulness and help them apply it to their lives.
The Sweet Spot: How to Find Your Groove at Home and Work By Christine Carter Ballantine Books, 2015, 320 pages Christine Carter shares the best habits and strategies for feeling strong, at ease, and less stressed.
Character Strengths Matter: How to Live a Full Life By Shannon Polly and Kathryn Britton Positive Psychology News, 250 pages, 2015 This edited volume offers an overview of character strengths and suggests ways we can cultivate them in everyday life.
Modern Romance By Aziz Ansari Penguin, 2015, 277 pages Aziz Ansari explores the ups and downs of online dating and how romance has changed in the age of technology.
The Spiritual Child: The New Science on Parenting for Health and Lifelong Thriving By Lisa Miller St. Martin's Press, 2015, 385 pages Lisa Miller explores how to raise children with a sense of awe and transcendence.
Altruism: The Power of Compassion to Change Yourself and the World By Matthieu Ricard Little, Brown and Company, 2015, 864 pages Matthieu Ricard argues that altruism is the path to well-being and the solution to society's major challenges in the 21st century.
The Most Good You Can Do: How Effective Altruism Is Changing Ideas About Living Ethically By Peter Singer Yale University Press, 2015, 228 pages Singer makes the philosophical case for effective altruism, a way of giving based on reasoned evaluation rather than emotion.
Doing Good Better: How Effective Altruism Can Help You Make a Difference By William MacAskill Gotham, 2015, 266 pages MacAskill argues that we should temper our emotional motivations for giving with reason and analysis.
Triumph of the Heart: Forgiveness in an Unforgiving World By Megan Feldman Bettencourt Hudson Street Press, 2015, 262 pages Megan Feldman Bettencourt explores why we forgive and how forgiveness can help us.
Unfair: The New Science of Criminal Injustice By Adam Benforado Crown, 2015, 379 pages Adam Benforado explains the inherent flaws in our criminal justice system that harm the innocent rather than serving justice and safety.
8 Keys to Forgiveness By Robert Enright W. W. Norton & Company, 2015, 251 pages Robert Enright outlines the basic steps involved in following the difficult, delicate path of forgiveness.
Broadcasting Happiness: The Science of Igniting and Sustaining Positive Change By Michelle Gielan BenBella Books, 2015, 275 pages Michelle Gielan explains how to spread positivity and combat negativity by changing the way we communicate and receive information.
The Danish Way of Parenting By Jessica Joelle Alexander and Iben Sandahl TarcherPerigee, 2016, 208 pages Jessica Alexander and Iben Sandahl distill six principles of parenting from one of the world's happiest countries.
One Second Ahead: Enhance Your Performance at Work with Mindfulness By Rasmus Hougaard and Jacqueline Carter Palgrave Macmillan, 2015, 234 pages Rasmus Hougaard and Jacqueline Carter teach us how to integrate mindfulness into work to combat stress and distractions.
Why Therapy Works: Using Our Minds to Change Our Brains By Louis Cozolino W. W. Norton, 2015, 288 pages Louis Cozolino argues that talk therapy works by tapping into our hardwired human needs for connection, understanding, and belonging.
Our Kids: The American Dream in Crisis By Robert Putnam Simon & Schuster, 2015, 400 pages Robert Putnam shows how inequality of opportunity is hurting American youth and offers some social and political solutions.
Reclaiming Conversation: The Power of Talk in a Digital Age By Sherry Turkle Penguin Press, 2015, 436 pages Sherry Turkle explains why conversations are so vital for our relationships, creativity, and productivity, and how to save them from technology.
The Giving Way to Happiness: Stories and Science Behind the Life-Changing Power of Giving By Jenny Santi Tarcher, 2015, 352 pages Jenny Santi explains how to donate your time and money in the most rewarding ways.
Well Designed Life By Kyra Bobinet engagedIN Press, 2015, 414 pages Kyra Bobinet applies the principles of modern design to creating a mindful, healthy, and purposeful life.
Friend & Foe: When to Cooperate, When to Compete, and How to Succeed at Both By Adam Galinsky and Maurice Schweitzer Crown Books, 2015, 312 pages Adam Galinsky and Maurice Schweitzer explore how our psychology impacts our decisions to cooperate or compete, in business and beyond.
The Wisest One in the Room: How You Can Benefit from Social Psychology’s Most Powerful Insights By Thomas Gilovich and Lee Ross Free Press, 2015, 307 pages Thomas Gilovich and Lee Ross summarize the most important insights from social psychology to show why people behave the way they do.
The Gratitude Diaries: How a Year Looking on the Bright Side Can Transform Your Life By Janice Kaplan Dutton, 2015, 320 pages Janice Kaplan recounts her journey learning the science of gratitude and applying it to her everyday life.
The Joy of Half a Cookie: Using Mindfulness to Lose Weight and End the Struggle with Food By Jean Kristeller Perigee, 2015, 288 pages Jean Kristeller explains how we can use mindfulness practices to eat wisely and enjoy our special treats more.
Wired to Create: Unraveling the Mysteries of the Creative Mind By Scott Barry Kaufman and Carolyn Gregoire Perigee Books, 2015, 288 pages Scott Barry Kaufman and Carolyn Gregoire explore how to develop creativity as a habit and a way of life.
Marital Conflict and Children: An Emotional Security Perspective By E. Mark Cummings and Patrick Davies The Guilford Press, 2010, 320 pages E. Mark Cummings and Patrick T. Davies explain how parental conflicts affect children and how to resolve them without causing harm.
Self-Compassion in Psychotherapy: Mindfulness-Based Practices for Healing and Transformation By Tim Desmond W. W. Norton & Company, 2015, 256 pages Tim Desmond offers strategies for psychotherapists to integrate the science of self-compassion into clinical treatment.
Beyond Measure: Rescuing an Overscheduled, Overtested, Underestimated Generation By Vicki Abeles Simon & Schuster, 2015, 287 pages Vicki Abeles argues that overscheduling and overtesting our kids isn't helping them learn better—and is hurting their health and happiness.
Rising Strong: The Reckoning. The Rumble. The Revolution By Brené Brown Spiegel and Grau, 2015, 336 pages Brené Brown explores how brave and vulnerable people practice resilience by confronting their emotions and their stories.
The Importance of Being Little: What Preschoolers Really Need From Grownups By Erika Christakis Viking, 2016, 400 pages Erika Christakis argues that preschools shouldn't teach academics, but offer a responsive, natural environment that feeds kids' curiosity.
The Happiness Track: How to Apply the Science of Happiness to Accelerate Your Success By Emma Seppälä HarperOne, 2016, 224 pages Emma Seppälä explains how to use the science of happiness to preserve your energy and be more productive.
The Altruistic Brain: How We Are Naturally Good By Donalf Pfaff Oxford University Press, 2015, 312 pages Donalf Pfaff suggests that altruism is hardwired into our brains, not immorality and selfishness.
Smart Change: Five Tools to Create New and Sustainable Habits in Yourself and Others By Art Markman TarcherPerigee, 2014, 288 pages Art Markman explores how to change our own habits and how to influence other people's.
Moving Toward Global Compassion By Paul Ekman Paul Ekman Group, 2014, 116 pages Paul Ekman explains how to extend compassion beyond our circle of family and friends, across social and geographical lines.
Success and Luck: Good Fortune and the Myth of Meritocracy By Robert Frank Princeton University Press, 2016, 208 pages Robert Frank debunks the myth of meritocracy and offers recommendations for creating a more equitable society.
Wired To Connect: The Surprising Link Between Brain Science and Strong, Healthy Relationships By Amy Banks TarcherPerigee, 2016, 320 pages Amy Banks argues that it’s time for Americans to make more time for their relationships—and not worry so much about independence.
Smarter Faster Better: The Secrets of Being Productive in Life and Business By Charles Duhigg Random House, 2016, 400 pages Charles Duhigg distills how happy and productive people think: how they motivate themselves, stay focused, absorb information, and make decisions.
Grit: The Power of Passion and Perseverance By Angela Duckworth Scribner, May 2016, 352 pages Angela Duckworth argues that grit is the key to overcoming difficulty and achieving success.
Life on Purpose: How Living for What Matters Most Changes Everything By Victor Strecher HarperOne, 2016, 288 pages Victor Strecher explores how and why to cultivate purpose, drawing on philosophy, science, and personal stories (including his own).
Into the Magic Shop By Jim Doty Avery, 2016, 286 pages In this memoir, Jim Doty explains how learning mindfulness and compassion helped him overcome childhood adversity and poverty.
UnSelfie: Why Empathetic Kids Succeed in Our All-About-Me World By Michele Borba Touchstone, 2016, 288 pages Michele Borba offers tips for parents, teachers, and other caring adults to help encourage children to develop empathy and generosity toward others.
The Moral Economy: Why Good Incentives Are No Substitute for Good Citizens By Samuel Bowles Yale University Press, 2016, 288 pages Samuel Bowles argues that incentives aren't the only driver of good behavior; instead, we should promote norms of fairness and trust.
Becoming Wise: An Inquiry into the Mystery and Art of Living By Krista Tippett Penguin Press, 2016, 304 pages Tippett shares insights from modern thinkers in a quest to bring together our fractured world in civility and love.
The Anxious Lawyer By Jeena Cho and Karen Gifford Ankerwycke, 2016, 251 pages Cho and Gifford offer an eight-week guide to mindfulness and meditation to make your law practice more satisfying and joyful.
Growing Up Mindful By Christopher Willard Sounds True, 2016, 256 pages Willard explains what parents and teachers can do to encourage kids to be more mindful.
Overcoming Destructive Anger: Strategies That Work By Bernard Golden Johns Hopkins University Press, 2016 Golden outlines the nature of anger—what triggers it, how it affects us, and what we can do to manage it effectively.
This Is Where You Belong: The Art and Science of Loving the Place You Live By Melody Warnick Viking, June 2016, 320 pages Warnick explores what it means to settle down and love where you live.
Splitopia: Dispatches from Today’s Good Divorce and How to Part Well By Wendy Paris Atria Books, 2016, 336 pages Paris challenges our negative assumptions about divorce and offers tips for a happier, healthier split.
Self-Reg: How to Help Your Child (and You) Break the Stress Cycle and Successfully Engage with Life By Stuart Shanker Penguin Press, 2016, 320 pages Shanker outlines steps that parents can take to deal with problematic behavior or anxiety in their children more effectively.
Tribe: On Homecoming and Belonging By Sebastian Junger Twelve, 2016, 192 pages Junger explores the loneliness and alienation of modern society and the haunting question of why soldiers miss war upon their return home.
Push Back: Guilt in the Age of Natural Parenting By Amy Tuteur Dey Street Books, 2016, 384 pages Tuteur takes aim at the logic and evidence for natural childbirth, breastfeeding, and attachment parenting.
All on One Plate: Cultural Expectations on American Mothers By Solveig Brown Paragon House, 2016, 256 pages Brown shares insights from her interviews with mothers about their beliefs about mothering, the strain they face, and their attempts to cope.
Becoming Brilliant: What Science Tells us About Raising Successful Children By Roberta Michnick Golinkoff and Kathy Hirsh-Pasek American Psychological Association, 2016, 344 pages Golinkoff and Hirsh-Pasek argue that education should focus on collaboration, communication, content, critical thinking, creativity, and confidence.
Awakening Joy for Kids By James Baraz and Michele Lilyanna Parallax Press, 2016, 304 pages Baraz and Lilyanna offer a guide to helping your children increase their presence, self-compassion, openness, and well-being.
The Fix: How Nations Survive and Thrive in a World in Decline By Jonathan Tepperman Tim Duggan Books, 2016, 320 pages Tepperman gathers insights from world leaders on how to solve seemingly intractable societal problems, from inequality to political divisions.
Mindful Games: Sharing Mindfulness and Meditation with Children, Teens, and Families By Susan Kaiser Greenland Shambhala, 2016, 224 pages Greenland offers mindfulness exercises for children that teach attention, balance, and compassion.
Messy: The Power of Disorder to Transform Our Lives By Tim Harford Riverhead Books, 2016, 304 pages Harford suggests how embracing disorder can improve our creativity, innovation, problem-solving, and resilience.
Be the Boss Everyone Wants to Work For: A Guide for New Leaders By William Gentry Berrett-Koehler Publishers, 2016, 216 pages Gentry explains the mindset and skill set required to be a leader—someone devoted to the good of the group rather than personal advancement.
The Distracted Mind: Ancient Brains in a High-Tech World By Adam Gazzaley and Larry Rosen MIT Press, 2016, 304 pages Gazzaley and Rosen explain why our brains struggle with technology and multitasking, and how to cope better with distractions.
Are We Smart Enough to Know How Smart Animals Are? By Frans de Waal W. W. Norton & Company, 2016, 352 pages de Waal questions our intellectual superiority to other animals by showing all the ingenious ways animals adapt to their environments.
Opening Up by Writing It Down: How Expressive Writing Improves Health and Eases Emotional Pain By James W. Pennebaker and Joshua M. Smyth The Guilford Press, 2016, 210 pages Pennebaker and Smyth survey the scientific history of the expressive writing practice, its benefits, and how to make it work for you.
Changing to Thrive By James Prochaska and Janice Prochaska Hazelden, 2016, 260 pages The Prochaskas examine the common psychological barriers to change—and how to overcome them.
Take Pride: Why the Deadliest Sin Holds the Secret to Human Success By Jessica Tracy Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2016, 240 pages Tracy argues that we evolved to feel pride because it serves an important social function.
Helping Children Succeed: What Works and Why By Paul Tough Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2016, 119 pages Tough argues children will develop the qualities they need to succeed if they have the right environmental supports in their families and schools.
Joy on Demand: The Art of Discovering the Happiness Within By Chade-Meng Tan HarperOne, 2016, 272 pages Tan teaches mindfulness by emphasizing ease, joy, and jokes.
The Happiness Track: How to Apply the Science of Happiness to Accelerate Your Success By Emma Seppälä HarperOne, 2016, 224 pages Seppälä explains how to use the science of happiness to preserve your energy and be more productive.
The Power Paradox: How We Gain and Lose Influence By Dacher Keltner Penguin Press, 2016, 208 pages Keltner explains the secret to gaining and keeping power: focus on the good of others.
Strangers in Their Own Land: Anger and Mourning on the American Right By Arlie Hochschild New Press, 2016, 288 pages Hochschild offers a sociological portrait of the conservative right, going beyond stereotypes to understand their deeper emotions and motivations.
The Gardener and the Carpenter By Alison Gopnik Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2016, 320 pages Gopnik draws on cognitive science, evolutionary theory, and philosophy to explain how children develop and what they really need from adults.
Success and Luck: Good Fortune and the Myth of Meritocracy By Robert Frank Princeton University Press, 2016, 208 pages Frank debunks the myth of meritocracy and offers recommendations for creating a more equitable society.
Peak: Secrets from the New Science of Expertise By Anders Ericsson and Robert Pool Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2016, 336 pages Ericsson and Pool distill the specific habits that lead to top performance, arguing that innate talent is less important than we think.
America the Anxious: How Our Pursuit of Happiness Is Creating a Nation of Nervous Wrecks By Ruth Whippman St. Martin's Press, 256 pages Whippman investigates the American obsession with happiness and tries to figure out why it doesn’t seem to work.
Invisible Influence: The Hidden Forces that Shape Behavior By Jonah Berger Simon & Schuster, 2016, 272 pages Berger shows us the insidious way other people’s opinions affect us, including what we see, buy, and believe.
Mastering Civility: A Manifesto for the Workplace By Christine Porath Grand Central Publishing, 2016, 240 pages Porath makes the case that practicing civility at the office is the path to better relationships and higher productivity.
Fostering Empathy Through Museums By Elif M. Gokcigdem Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, 2016, 330 pages Gokcigdem showcases a variety of museums and programs that are fostering empathy through education, design, and experiential learning.
The Creativity Challenge: How We Can Recapture American Innovation By KH Kim Prometheus Books, 2016, 351 pages Kim addresses how to combat the trend of declining creativity in America in our workplaces and beyond.
Raising a Secure Child By Kent Hoffman, Glen Cooper, and Bert Powell The Guilford Press, 2017, 280 pages Hoffman, Cooper, and Powell suggest that parents can raise healthier and happier children by providing a balance of support and freedom.
The Nature Fix: Why Nature Makes us Happier, Healthier, and More Creative By Florence Williams W. W. Norton & Company, 2017, 304 pages Williams shows how nature impacts our health, creativity, and happiness, arguing that we should incorporate more green spaces into our lives.
The Leading Brain: Powerful Science-Based Strategies for Achieving Peak Performance By Friederike Fabritius and Hans W. Hagemann TarcherPerigee, 2017, 336 pages Fabritius and Hagemann show how we can apply advances from neuroscience to work smarter and happier.
Buddhist Economics: An Enlightened Approach to the Dismal Science By Clair Brown Bloomsbury Press, 2017, 218 pages Brown argues for integrating the Buddhist values of relieving suffering, interdependence with others, and sustainability into the economy.
Creative Change: Why We Resist It . . . How We Can Embrace It By Jennifer Mueller Houghton, Mifflin, Harcourt, 2017, 256 pages Mueller explains how uncertainty can get in the way of embracing creativity, and how to be more open to creative ideas.
The Power of Meaning: Crafting a Life That Matters By Emily Esfahani Smith Crown, 2017, 304 pages Smith uncovers the four pillars of living a meaningful life: belonging, purpose, transcendence, and storytelling.
The Ostrich Paradox: Why We Underprepare for Disasters By Robert Meyer and Howard Kunreuther Wharton Digital Press, 2017, 132 pages Meyer and Kunreuther outline the psychological biases that get in the way of good decision-making—and what to do about them.
Awakening Compassion at Work: The Quiet Power That Elevates People and Organizations By Monica Worline and Jane Dutton Berrett-Koehler Publishers, 2017, 272 pages Worline and Dutton explain why showing compassion in the workplace can help employees and businesses to thrive.
Attending: Medicine, Mindfulness, and Humanity By Ronald Epstein Scribner, 2017, 304 pages Epstein explains how mindfulness allows doctors to listen attentively, make good judgments, and act compassionately.
What Patients Say, What Doctors Hear By Danielle Ofri Beacon Press, 2017, 288 pages Ofri offers listening and communication skills that can help doctors improve their patient care.
The Compassionate Achiever: How Helping Others Fuels Success By Christopher L. Kukk HarperOne, 2017, 256 pages Kukk explains why and how you can achieve success by practicing compassion, altruism, and kindness.
The Developmental Science of Early Childhood By Claudia Gold W. W. Norton & Company, 2017, 304 pages Gold helps parents understand their kids better by looking beyond behavior to the larger forces in the family and the child's biology.
The Future of Happiness By Amy Blankson BenBella Books, 2017, 240 pages Blankson argues that technology can make our lives happier and more productive—but only if we use it intentionally.
Mindshift: Break Through Obstacles to Learning and Discover Your Hidden Potential By Barbara Oakley TarcherPerigee, 2017, 304 pages Oakley offers readers a course in learning how to learn, debunking the myths that hold us back from transformative growth.
Rest: Why You Get More Done When You Work Less By Alex Soojung-Kim Pang Basic Books, 2016, 320 pages Pang explains the benefits of rest for productivity and innovation, and what we can do to rest more effectively.
The Craving Mind By Judson Brewer Yale University Press, 2017, 256 pages Brewer shows how mindfulness and meditation can help counter everyday cravings that lead to bad habits and addictions.
U Thrive: How to Succeed in College (and Life) By Daniel Lerner and Alan Schlechter Little, Brown and Company, 2017, 304 pages Lerner and Schlechter offer a wide range of strategies for happiness and success, based on their popular college course.
Overcoming Bias: Building Authentic Relationships across Differences By Tiffany Jana and Matthew Freeman Berrett-Koehler Publishers, 2016, 144 pages Jana and Freeman explain how to mitigate the impact of unconscious biases and forge meaningful connections with others.
Another Kind of Madness: A Journey Through the Stigma and Hope of Mental Illness By Stephen Hinshaw St. Martin's Press, 2017, 288 pages Hinshaw's memoir explores how his father's psychosis affected his life, and argues for reducing the stigma around mental illness.
The Happy Traveler: Unpacking the Secrets of Better Vacations By Jaime Kurtz Oxford University Press, 2017, 304 pages Kurtz draws on the science of happiness and decision making to help us have happier vacations.
Awkward: The Science of Why We’re Socially Awkward and Why That’s Awesome By Ty Tashiro William Morrow, 2017, 288 pages Tashiro explains why some people are more socially awkward and how they can use their strengths to connect with others The Weekend Effect By Katrina Onstad HarperCollins, 2017, 304 pages Onstad explains how we lost our work-life balance, why it matters, and what to do about it.
Stick with It: A Scientifically Proven Process for Changing Your Life-for Good By Sean Young Harper, 2017, 304 pages Young explains why changing our habits and behaviors can be difficult and offers practical strategies for lasting transformation.
Barking Up the Wrong Tree By Eric Barker HarperOne, 2017, 320 pages Barker offers strategies for achieving any kind of success—whether you want to boost your productivity, income, or expertise.
Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body By Daniel Goleman and Richard Davidson Avery, 2017, 336 pages Goleman and Davidson uncover the best mindfulness research to show how long-term meditation can profoundly improve your mind, brain, and body.
The Asshole Survival Guide: How to Deal with People Who Treat You Like Dirt By Robert I. Sutton Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2017, 229 pages Sutton explains how to deal with toxic relationships at work.
How to Be Happy at Work: The Power of Purpose, Hope, and Friendship By Annie McKee Harvard Business Review Press, 2017, 272 pages McKee argues that our jobs can be happier if we focus on seeking purpose, hope, and positive relationships at work.
Braving the Wilderness: The Quest for True Belonging and the Courage to Stand Alone By Brené Brown Random House, 2017, 208 pages Brown identifies the roots of true belonging, and how our society can move past shame and hate toward empathy and connection.
Born to Be Wild: Why Teens Take Risks, and How We Can Help Keep Them Safe By Jess P. Shatkin TarcherPerigee, 2017, 320 pages Shatkin explains why teens take risks, and how parents and teachers can help them make better choices and stay safe.
Careful: A User’s Guide to Our Injury-Prone Minds By Steve Casner Riverhead Books, 2017, 336 pages Casner reveals how our minds make us careless and what we can do to prevent injury.
iGen By Jean Twenge Atria Books, 2017, 352 pages Twenge uses large-scale surveys to draw a detailed portrait of today’s teens and the unique cultural forces shaping them.
Why We Sleep: Unlocking the Power of Sleep and Dreams By Matthew Walker Scribner, 2017, 368 pages Walker explains how we can harness the transformative power of sleep to change our lives for the better.
The All-or-Nothing Marriage: How the Best Marriages Work By Eli J. Finkel Dutton, 2017, 352 pages Finkel charts the historical course of marriage and offers three strategies for a flourishing modern partnership.
The Power of Moments: Why Certain Experiences Have Extraordinary Impact By Chip Heath and Dan Heath Simon & Schuster, 2017, 320 pages The Heaths argue that peak moments are essential to happiness and explain how to create more of them at work and in our personal lives.
The Influential Mind: What the Brain Reveals About Our Power to Change Others By Tali Sharot Henry Holt and Co., 2017, 244 pages Sharot explains how our attempts to influence others work (or don’t work) in the brain, so we can better persuade and motivate others.
Behave: The Biology of Humans at Our Best and Worst By Robert M. Sapolsky Penguin Press, 2017, 800 pages Sapolsky offers a synthesis of how biology shapes human behavior—both the good and the bad—and how that explains larger societal problems.
The Strength Switch By Lea Waters Avery, 2017, 352 pages Waters guides parents to see their children's positive attributes rather than their flaws, with real-life examples and practical exercises.
Happier?: The History of a Cultural Movement That Aspired to Transform America By Daniel Horowitz Oxford University Press, 2017, 320 pages Horowitz takes a tour of the history, criticisms, and future of the positive psychology movement.
When Grit Isn’t Enough By Linda F. Nathan Beacon Press, 2017, 200 pages Nathan offers solutions for educators and mentors who want to help low-income and first-generation students succeed in college or careers.
Emotional Success: The Power of Gratitude, Compassion, and Pride By David DeSteno Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2018, 240 pages DeSteno shows how gratitude, compassion, and pride—rather than willpower and self-denial—can help us cultivate grit and achieve our goals.
Before You Know It: The Unconscious Reasons We Do What We Do By John Bargh Touchstone, 2017, 352 pages Bargh explains how unconscious motivations and environmental cues influence how we act, and how to harness them to create good habits.
Great at Work: How Top Performers Do Less, Work Better, and Achieve More By Morten Hansen Simon & Schuster, 2018, 320 pages Hansen uncovers the best strategies you can use at work to be happier and more successful.
No More Mean Girls: The Secret to Raising Strong, Confident, and Compassionate Girls By Katie Hurley TarcherPerigee, 2018, 336 pages Hurley explains how to counter bullying and relational aggression and help young girls with friendship building, authenticity, and courage.
The Organized Child: An Effective Program to Maximize Your Kid’s Potential—in School and in Life By Richard Gallagher,‎ Elana G. Spira,‎ and Jennifer L. Rosenblatt The Guilford Press, 2018, 206 pages Spira, Rosenblatt, and Gallagher explain how to improve your kids’ organization, time management, and planning skills.
The Kindness Cure: How the Science of Compassion Can Heal Your Heart and Your World By Tara Cousineau New Harbinger Publications, 2018, 240 pages Cousineau argues that we are wired for kindness and offers guidelines for starting a kindness revolution—and overcoming barriers along the way.
What We Think About When We Try Not to Think About Global Warming By Per Espen Stoknes Chelsea Green Publishing, 2015, 320 pages Stoknes explains how to reframe the debate around climate change and turn apocalypse fatigue into personal and societal action.
Doing Harm By Maya Dusenbery HarperOne, 2018, 400 pages Dusenbery book exposes the gender disparities in medicine that lead to poorer outcomes for women and the systemic causes of these disparities.
How We Work: Live Your Purpose, Reclaim Your Sanity, and Embrace the Daily Grind By Leah Weiss Harper Wave, 2018, 272 pages Weiss offers mindfulness practices to sharpen your abilities, enhance your leadership and interpersonal skills, and boost your satisfaction at work.
Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness By Rick Hanson and Forrest Hanson Harmony, 2018, 304 pages The Hansons teach positive neuroplasticity—how to boost resilience by turning passing experiences into lasting inner resources.
How to Be Yourself: Quiet Your Inner Critic and Rise Above Social Anxiety By Ellen Hendriksen St. Martin's Press, 2018, 304 pages Hendriksen argues that socially anxious people can get relief and make connections with others, without a major personality change.
Alive at Work: The Neuroscience of Helping Your People Love What They Do By Daniel M. Cable Harvard Business Review Press, 2018, 224 pages Cable leverages neuroscience to explain why work is a slog—and how to bring back our curiosity and excitement.
When: The Scientific Secrets of Perfect Timing By Daniel Pink Riverhead Books, 2018, 272 pages Pink explains the psychology of time and how to harness it for greater success and well-being.
Gratitude: A Way of Teaching Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, 2016, 148 pages This valuable book will give educators solution-based methods and research-based resources to improve classroom culture, as well as enabling… Mindfulness for Teachers By Patricia A. Jennings W. W. Norton & Company, 2015, 288 A leading expert on mindfulness in education explains how teachers can manage the stresses of their classrooms and foster well-being in… Mindful Discipline By Shauna Shapiro and Chris White New Harbinger, 2014, 199 pages Psychologist Shauna Shapiro and pediatrician Chris White weave together ancient wisdom and modern science to provide new perspectives on… Making Grateful Kids By Jeffrey Froh and Giacomo Bono Templeton Press, 2014, 272 pages Two experts explain how to foster gratitude in children, drawing on new research and compelling real-life stories.
Gratitude Works! By Robert A. Emmons Jossey-Bass, 2013, 196 pages The world's leading scientific expert on gratitude offers a step-by-step guide to becoming a more grateful person.
The Emotional Life of Your Brain By Richard J. Davidson (Author), Sharon Begley (Contributor) Plume, December 24, 2012, 304 pages Davidson, a pioneering neuroscientist, and Begley, a leading science journalist, explain how we each have specific, identifiable brain… The Forgiving Life By Robert D. Enright American Psychological Association, 2012, 384 pages Guides readers through the path to forgiveness, drawing on Enright's decades of research.
A Simple Act of Gratitude By John Kralik Hyperion, 2011, 240 A memoir on how a man's resolution to write 365 thank you letters in one year changed his life.
Moral Origins By Christopher Boehm Basic Books, 2012, 432 pages Our moral sense is a defense mechanism. From the days of Darwin to today, biologists--and now Boehm--understand altruism as the key to… Mindful Birthing By Nancy Bardacke HarperOne, 2012, 384 pages Bardacke shares the science and stories behind her Mindfulness-Based Childbirth and Parenting Program, and explains how to incorporate… The Moral Molecule By Paul J. Zak Dutton Adult, 2012, 256 pages A look at the hormone oxytocin's role in trust and how that may be the basis of a well-functioning economic system.
Empathy: Philosophical and Psychological Perspectives By Amy Coplan and Peter Goldie (co-editors) Oxford University Press, USA , December 17, 2011, 464 pages A collection of philosophy/psychology sources revealing how important it is to bring to bear an understanding of the role of empathy in its… Empathy By Jean Decety (Editor) The MIT Press, 2011, 336 pages This edited volume explores current research on empathy, theories about empathy, and the relationship between empathy and clinical and… The Anatomy of Hope By Jerome Groopman Random House Trade Paperbacks, 2005, 272 pages Why do some people find and sustain hope during difficult circumstances, while others do not? What can we learn from those who do, and how is… Flourish By Martin E.P. Seligman Free Press, 2011, 368 pages Redefining what Positive Psychology is all about, Seligman now considers, What is it that enables you to cultivate your talents, to build… The Social Animal By David Brooks Random House, 2011, 448 pages The hidden sources of love, character, and achievement. Brooks explores the unconscious mind and how it shapes the way we live.
The Better Angels of Our Nature By Steven Pinker Viking Adult, 2011, 832 pages Pinker's controversial claim: Violence has been diminishing for millennia and we may be living in the most peaceful time in our species's… Unconditional Parenting By Alfie Kohn Atria Books, 2005, 264 pages Kohn argues that when we rely on external motivators such as rewards and punishments, we are teaching our children that their worth depends… The Loss of Sadness By Allan Horwitz and Jerome Wakefield Oxford University Press, 2007, 312 pages According to Horwitz and Wakefield, emotions like sadness and depression have a long evolutionary history in humans, suggesting that these… Against happiness By Eric G. Wilson Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2009, 176 pages Eric G. Wilson proposes that our culture’s preoccupation with happiness has overshadowed the importance of melancholy, an emotion he… The Cure Within By Anne Harrington W. W. Norton & Company, 2008, 336 pages Anne Harrington examines the roots of mind-body medicine, exploring how today’s alternative treatments, such as mindfulness meditation,… Nudge By Richard Thaler and Cass R. Sunstein Penguin, 2009, 320 pages Improving decisions about health, wealth, and happiness, with a little nudge.
Pathological Altruism By Edited by Barbara Oakley, Ariel Knafo, Guruprasad Madhavan, and David Sloan Wilson Oxford University Press, 2011, 496 pages Altruism is good, but too much of it can trigger burnout--or worse--depression. "Hyperempathy" and "pathological" altruism make us sick and… SuperCooperators By Martin Nowak and Roger Highfield Free Press, 2011, 352 pages Novak re-tells the story of evolution as a story of cooperation, not competition, offering scientific and mathematical evidence that altruism… The Price of Altruism By Oren Harman W. W. Norton & Company, 2011, 451 pages If evolution has yielded goodness, then why wasn't Darwin concerned about the survival of the nicest? Harman tells a story of human kindness… Altruism in Humans By C. Daniel Batson Oxford University Press, 2011, 336 pages We lose time to save the whales and we lose sleep over a heartbroken friend. With this, Baston posits the remarkable thesis that we humans… NutureShock By Po Bronson and Ashley Merryman Twelve, 2011, 352 pages NurtureShock unravels how many of modern society's most popular strategies for raising children are in fact backfiring because key points in… The Joy Diet By Martha Beck Crown Archetype, 2003, 240 pages Ten daily practices for a happier life.
Learned Optimism By Martin E. P. Seligman Vintage, 2006, 336 pages An absolute must-read for all persons interested in genuinely understanding and helping our fellow human beings.
Happiness: The Science Behind Your Smile By Daniel Nettle Oxford University Press, 2006, 224 pages Nettle seeks out the reasons behind the lack of connection between the acquisition of material goods and happiness.
Positive Psychology at the Movies By Ryan Niemiec and Danny Wedding Hogrefe Publishing, 2008, 308 pages Niemiec and Wedding use hundreds of films to illustrate some of strengths (e.g., bravery, curiosity) and virtues (e.g., temperance, wisdom)… The Optimistic Child By Martin E. P. Seligman Mariner Books, 2007, 352pages A proven program to safeguard children against depression and build lifelong resilience.
Mindful Motherhood By Cassandra Vieten New Harbinger Publications, 2009, 216 pages This book highlights how mindfulness can help you approach every experience with your new baby with open eyes and an open heart.
Self-Compassion By Kristin Neff William Morrow, 2011, 320 pages Kristin Neff explains how to cultivate self-compassion and why it's so beneficial.
The Dalai Lama at MIT By Anne Harrington and Arthur Zajonc Harvard University Press, 2006, 304 pages 'The Dalai Lama at MIT' is a “broadcast” of an historic 2003 meeting between the Dalai Lama and 22 world-renowned scientists at the… Reconciliation in divided societies By Erin Daly and Jeremy Sarkin University of Pennsylvania Press, 2007, 352 pages Erin Daly, a law professor at Widener University in Delaware, and Jeremy Sarkin, a professor and former judge in Cape Town, South Africa,… Buddah’s Brain By Rick Hanson and Richard Mendius New Harbinger Publications, 2009, 272 pages Rick Hanson and Richard Mendius show how buddhist practices strengthen positive neurochemical systems that determine how we feel about life,… Connected By Nicholas A. Christakis and James H. Fowler Back Bay Books, 2011, 368 pages Christakis and Folwer guide us through the burgeoning field of social network science, offering sharp reminders of the extraordinary role… The Happiness Project By Gretchen Rubin Harper Paperbacks, 2011, 336 pages Rubin decides to work on changing one aspect of her life each month for a year, following a recipe for self-improvement culled from the works… The Upside of Irrationality By Dan Ariely Harper, 2010, 352 pages Ariely, a professor of behavioral economics at Duke, reveals how we are not the rational, selfish beings some economists would have us… How Pleasure Works By Paul Bloom W. W. Norton & Co., 2010, 280 pages Bloom explores a broad range of human pleasures from food to sex to religion to music. Bloom argues that human pleasure is not purely an… The Mindful Therapist By Daniel Siegel W.W. Norton & Company, 2010, 320 pages Siegel argues that the mindfulness and well-being of a therapist has a direct impact on the quality of treatment that he or she is able to… The Politics of Happiness By Derek Bok Princeton University Press, 2010, 272 pages Author and former Harvard president, Derek Bok, makes the case that findings from positive psychology should inform social policies, helping… Exploring Happiness By Sissela Bok Yale University Press, 2010, 224 pages Bok draws on ideas from philosophy, economics, and psychology to offer an understanding of happiness and how we may go about getting more of… Alone Together By Sherry Turkle Basic Books, 2011, 384 pages Turkle illustrates how the lines between reality and virtual reality are becoming increasingly blurred.
Virtually You By Elias Aboujaoude W.W. Norton, 2011, 349 pages Aboujaoude, describes the ways we reinvent ourselves online and says that the problem with our “e-personality” is its intense focus on ourselves.
The Worry Solution By Martin Rossman Crown Publishing, 2010, 233 pages Rossman attempts to show readers how to distinguish corrosive from helpful worrying, and how to handle each more effectively. His solution is… Join The Club By Tina Rosenberg W.W. Norton, 2011, 385 pages Rosenberg, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist, delves deeply into stories of people who’ve developed savvy ways to exploit social,… Real Happiness By Sharon Salzberg Workman Publishing, 2011, 208 pages Shares the lessons and wisdom Salzberg has developed over 30 years of teaching meditation, distilled into a 28-day program.
The Science of Evil By Simon Baron-Cohen Basic Books, 2011, 256 pages Baron-Cohen reports on what he has learned about the link between empathy and cruelty over more than two decades of research.
Rad Dad: Dispatches from the Frontiers of Fatherhood PM Press, 2011, 200 pages Bestselling authors, writers, musicians, and others bring their voices together to explore the modern complexities of fatherhood. Co-edited… The Mindfulness Revolution By Barry Boyce (Editor) Shambhala, 2011, 288 pages Some of the top experts on mindfulness explain what it is, why we should practice it, and how to apply it at work, at home, and beyond.
The Social Neuroscience of Empathy By Jean Decety and William Ickes (Co-Editors) The MIT Press, 2011, 272 pages This edited volume takes a social neuroscience approach to empathy by examining empathy at multiple levels including biological, cognitive,… NurtureShock: New Thinking about Children The Middle Place Lift: Children. Turbulence. Life.
The Optimistic Child: A Proven Program to Safeguard Children Against Depression and Build ...
Learned Optimism: How to Change Your Mind and Your Life Generation Me: Why Today’s Young Americans Are More Confident, Assertive, Entitled—& More Miserable Punished by Rewards: The Trouble with Gold Stars, Incentive Plans, A’s, Praise, and Other Bribes Why Good Things Happen to Good People Unconditional Parenting: Moving from Rewards and Punishments to Love and Reason Born to Buy: The Commercialized Child and the New Consumer Culture Affluenza: The All-Consuming Epidemic The High Price of Materialism In the Course of a Lifetime Tracing Religious Belief, Practice, and Change The Optimistic Child A proven program to safeguard children against depression and build life long resilience.
The Lonely American By Jacqueline Olds and Richard Schwartz Beacon Press, 2010, 240 pages Psychiatrists Jacqueline Olds and Richard Schwartz, describes America's obsession with living separately from others and the corresponding… The Joy Diet NurtureShock: New Thinking about Children The Power of Compassion By Pamela Bloom and Joan Halifax Roshi Hampton Roads Publishing, 2010, 256 pages Compassion is powerful, but it is also contagious. Forty first-person stories make it abundantly clear that extraordinary acts of kindness… The Compassionate Mind By Paul Gilbert New Harbinger Publications, 2010, 544 pages We're angry, fearful, depressed--and we can't help it. Societies that encourage us to compete with each other make it difficult to exercise… The Mindful Child By Susan K. Greenland Free Press, 2010, 240 pages Greenland offers a simple “how to” approach to mindfulness to parents who want to practice with their children.
Fully Present By Susan Smalley and Diana Winston DeCapo, 2010, 260 pages Smalley highlights research encouraging readers to try mindfulness themselves, and Winston explains how.
A Call to Compassion By Karen Armstrong Knopf, 2010, 240 pages Drawing on foundational texts across many world religions, Armstrong describes the building blocks of compassion and challenges readers to… Are We Born Racist? New Insights from Neuroscience and Positive Psychology By Jason Marsh, Rodolfo Mendoza-Denton, and Jeremy Adam Smith (Co-Editors) Beacon Press, 2010, 149 pages This collection of essays, many of which first appeared in Greater Good , draws on cutting-edge science to explore the psychological roots of… Born for Love By Bruce D. Perry and Maia Szalavitz William Morrow, 2010, 384 pages Szalavitz and Perry examine the development of empathy in children, why it is crucial for society, and how it may be threatened in the modern world.
Raising Happiness: 10 Simple Steps for More Joyful Kids and Happier Parents By Christine Carter Ballantine Books, 2010, 256 pages The GGSC's Christine Carter distills the wisdom she has been sharing for years in her parenting blog, offering research-based tips for… Whistling Vivaldi By Claude M. Steele W.W. Norton & Company, 2010, 242 pages Steele offers studies and stories that show how stereotypes can affect group members' lives in subtle but powerful ways, especially when it… The Compassionate Instinct: The Science of Human Goodness By Dacher Keltner, Jason Marsh, and Jeremy Adam Smith (Co-Editors) W. W. Norton & Company, 2010, 316 pages An anthology of essays from the first five years of Greater Good magazine, highlighting ground-breaking research and trailblazing ideas on… Living Life as a Thank You By Nina Lesowitz and Mary Beth Sammons Viva Editions, 2009, 224 Presents a simple, but comprehensive program for incorporating gratitude into one's life, and reaping the many benefits that come from doing so.
The Path to Purpose By William Damon Free Press, 2009, 240 pages Looks at how children are hampered in their search for meaning, and how concerned adults can help them find it.
The Geography of Bliss By Eric Weiner Twelve, 2009, 368 pages Weiner takes us on a journey around the world to discover what makes some cultural groups happier than others.
The Wise Heart By Jack Kornfield Bantam, 2009, 448 pages Jack Kornfield explains the Buddhist concept of mindfulness and how it can be used for personal transformation.
Why We Cooperate By Michael Tomasello The MIT Press, 2009, 232 pages Nature and nurture interact to inform, and reform, cooperative behavior. Infants and apes are both able to share, but only the two-year-old… Loneliness By John Cacioppo and William Patrick W. W. Norton & Company, 2009, 336 pages Cacioppo and Patrick explain how we are wired to read human faces for social cues, but that lonely people are less skilled at this and,… Counterclockwise By Ellen Langer Ballantine Books, 2009, 240 pages Langer argues that, as we grow older, our physical limitations are largely determined by the way we think about ourselves and what we're capable of.
Positivity By Barbara Fredrickson Crown Archetype, 2009, 288 pages Fredrickson lays out the science of positivity in a book that promises to change the way people look at feeling good.
The Triple Bind By Stephen Hinshaw Ballantine Books, 2009, 256 pages According to Hinshaw, girls are pressured to excel at both traditional "female" roles and traditional "male" roles, while being 100% perfect… Mirroring People By Marco Iacoboni Picador, 2009, 336 pages Marco Iacoboni, a leading neuroscientist, explains the groundbreaking research into mirror neurons, the "smart cells" in our brain that allow… Curious? By Todd Kashdan HarperCollins Publishers, 2009, 355 pages Todd Kashdan writes on the benefits of curiosity, mindfulness, and embracing uncertainty through science, story, and practical exercises.
29 Gifts By Cami Walker Da Capo Lifelong Books, 2009, 256 pages Walker’s life is in a downward spiral until she takes unusual advice from a friend: to give away 29 gifts in 29 days.
The Empathic Civilization By Jeremy Rifkin Tarcher, 2009, 688 pages Rifkin believes that we humans are in a race for survival in a world of crisis, dependent on our ability to organize around an empathic… The Age of Empathy By Frans de Waal Crown, 2009, 304 pages De Waal shares stories of pets who comfort their distressed owners and indicate that the roots of empathy are not limited to humans, and in… The Daddy Shift By Jeremy Adam Smith Beacon Press, 2009, 256 pages What happens when women go to work and men take care of children? This influential book from Greater Good Science Center editor Jeremy Adam… The Empathy Gap: Building Bridges to the Good Life and the Good Society By J.D. Trout Viking Adult, 2009, 320 pages Trout explains how our empathic wiring actually undermines the best interests of individuals and society. However, it is possible to bridge… Born to Be Good: The Science of a Meaningful Life By Dacher Keltner W. W. Norton & Company, 2009, 352 pages The acclaimed book from Greater Good Science Center co-founder and faculty director Dacher Keltner, providing a thorough and engaging… Play = Learning By Dorothy Singer, Roberta Michnick Golinkoff, and Kathy Hirsh-Pasek Oxford University Press, 2008, 288 pages How play motivates and enhances children's cognitive and social-emotional growth.
The How of Happiness By Sonja Lyubomirsky Penguin, 2008, 384 pages Much of our happiness is within our power to control—roughly 40 percent, according to research by psychologist Sonja Lyubomirsky.
Beyond Revenge By Michael McCullough Jossey-Bass, 2008, 320 pages McCullough argues that forgiveness is truly a biological adaptation, naturally selected for its benefits to us as individuals and as a species.
Spark By John J. Ratey Little, Brown, and Company, 2008, 304 pages Ratey, a physician, argues that exercise has a “profound impact on cognitive abilities” and “is simply one of the best treatments we… Emotional Awareness: Overcoming the Obstacles to Psychological Balance and Compassion By The Dalai Lama and Paul Ekman Times Books, 2008, 288 pages Dialogue discussing how people can cultivate compassion, minimize the harmful effects of emotions like anger, and achieve balance in their… Building Emotional Intelligence By Linda Lantieri Sounds True, 2008, 155 pages Lantieri, with contributions from Daniel Goleman, offers practical techniques to help children calm their bodies and focus their minds.
Altruism, Intergroup Apology, Forgivness, and Reconciliation By Samuel P. Oliner Paragon House, 2008, 328 pages Samuel Oliner argues it's time for apology and forgiveness on a global scale.
Happiness By Ed Diener and Robert Biswas-Diener Wiley-Blackwell, 2008, 304 pages Happiness documents not just what happy people have in common, but the concrete benefits of happiness. For starters, happy people are more… The Science of Compassionate Love: Theory, Research, and Applications By Beverley Fehr, Susan Sprecher, and Lynn G. Underwood Wiley-Blackwell, 2008, 488 pages This anthology of essays is grounded in current literature on altruism and compassionate love: the specific brand of love that is giving the… The Lucifer Effect By Philip Zimbardo Random House, 2007, 576 pages What makes good people do bad things? How can moral people be seduced to act immorally? Zimbardo explores how we are all susceptible to the… The Homework Myth By Alfie Kohn Da Capo Press, 2007, 256 pages Why our kids get too much of a bad thing.
Mindset: The New Psychology of Success By Carol Dweck Ballantine Books, 2007, 288 pages Dweck shows that how we learn and grow is largely determined by whether we have a "fixed" or "growth" mindset. The good news is that most of… Social Intelligence By Daniel Goleman Bantam, 2007, 416 pages A groundbreaking synthesis of findings from social and biological sciences, revealing that we are “wired to connect” and our… When Parents Hurt By Joshua Coleman HarperCollins, 2007, 312 pages Compassionate strategies when you and your grown children don't get along.
Happier By Tal Ben-Shahar McGraw-Hill, 2007, 244 pages Happiness is a skill you can develop no matter how happy you currently are.
Thanks! By Robert A. Emmons Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2007, 256 pages How the science of gratitude can make you happier.
Forgive for Love By Fred Luskin HarperOne, 2007, 240 pages Luskin lays out a seven-step program designed to help long-term partners learn to forgive each other for simply being human.
Giving By Bill Clinton Knopf, 2007, 256 pages How each of us can change the world. Clinton urges us to seek out what each of us, “regardless of income, available time, age, and… The Altruistic Species By Andrew M. Flescher and Daniel L. Worthen Templeton Press, 2007, 304 pages Biology, psychology, philosophy, and religion all inform the answer to the age-old questions on altruism; on whether it is essential to the… The Mindful Way through Depression By Mark Williams, John Teasdale, Zindel Segal, and Jon Kabat-Zinn The Guilford Press, 2007, 273 pages The book draws from both Eastern meditative traditions and cognitive therapy to create a mindful way out of depression.
The Mindful Brain By Daniel J. Siegel W. W. Norton & Company, 2007, 387 pages Daniel shows readers how personal awareness and attunement can improve life by boosting well-being, resilience, emotional balance, and other… Why Good Things Happen to Good People By Stephen Post and Jill Neimark Broadway Books, 2007, 320 pages Post and Neimark make the case that giving to others—in small doses and from a young age—will help you “be happier… healthier… and… Train Your Mind, Change Your Brain By Sharon Begley Ballantine Books, 2007, 304 pages Begley explains neuroplasticity: how experience can shape the brain’s structure—and, in turn, change the way our minds and bodies function.
The Power of Play By David Elkind Da Capo Lifelong Books, 2007, 240 pages Elkind argues that our fast-paced, screenladen, and safety-obsessed way of life is destroying spontaneous, creative, child-led play, with… The Brain That Changes Itself By Norman Doidge Penguin, 2007, 427 pages Explores the significance of neuroplasticity, where thoughts and experience can change the shape of the brain over time, engaging the reader… The Hand of Compassion: Portraits of Moral Choice During the Holocaust By Kristen Renwick Monroe Princeton University Press, 2006, 384 pages The Hand of Compassion is the latest of several books to use the Holocaust as a basis for studying altruism and compassion.
Happiness: Lessons From a New Science By Richard Layard Penguin, 2006, 320 pages Since 1950, postwar capitalism has led to an unprecedented standard of living in the West. Yet it has not translated into an equal upsurge in… All Rise By Robert W. Fuller Berrett-Koehler Publishers, 2006, 200 pages Fuller's second book on "rankism," elaborating on his vision for replacing a “rankist” world with a “dignitarian” one, in which… Stumbling on Happiness By Daniel Gilbert Knopf, 2006, 277 pages Daniel Gilbert’s engaging and surprising new book, Stumbling on Happiness, won’t teach you how to become happy, but it will convince you… The Happiness Hypothesis By Jonathan Haidt Basic Books, 2006, 320 pages Why do some people find meaning, purpose, and fulfillment in life while others do not? Jonathan Haidt’s book draws on ancient wisdom and… Happiness: A History Grove Press, 2006, 560 pages Throughout history happiness has been equated with the highest human calling, argues McMahon, and our modern belief of happiness is the… Critical Lessons By Nel Noddings Cambridge University Press, 2006, 319 pages Nel Noddings advocates critical thinking and self-knowledge as the best ways to reinvigorate our woefully inadequate school systems.
The Anatomy of Peace By The Arbinger Institute Berrett-Koehler, 2006, 231 pages This book demonstrates that treating others humanely can resolve conflict better than direct confrontation.
Help for the Helper By Babette Rothschild and Marjorie Rand W. W. Norton & Company, 2006, 231 pages The authors examine the literature from neurobiology and social psychology to explain how therapists suffer from an excess of empathy for… Coming to Our Senses By Jon Kabat-Zinn Hyperion, 2005, 631 pages Jon Kabat-Zinn expands upon the themes of his earlier books: that Buddhist-based meditation and mindfulness techniques can relieve stress and… Field Notes on the Compassionate Life: A Search for the Soul of Kindness By Marc Ian Barasch Rodale, 2005, 352 pages Field Notes on the Compassionate Life chronicles Barasch's attempts to better understand people who so powerfully embody the better side of… Roots of Empathy By Mary Gordon Thomas Allen Publishers, 2005, 240 pages Mary Gordon explains how best to nurture empathy and social emotional literacy in all children—and thereby reduce aggression, antisocial… Our Inner Ape By Frans de Waal Riverhead, 2005, 288 pages De Waal insists that many positive human attributes—such as empathy, kindness, and altruism—are part of our animal heritage.
The Handbook of Positive Psychology Oxford University Press, 2005, 848 pages The first systematic attempt to bring together leading scholars of the emerging field of positive psychology, this book gives readers an… Happiness and Education By Nel Noddings Cambridge University Press, 2004, 320 pages When parents are asked what they want for their children, they usually answer that they want their children to be happy. Why, then, is… Do Unto Others By Samuel P. Oliner Basic Books, 2004, 304 pages Oliner explores why ordinary people perform extraordinary acts of courage, compassion, and self-sacrifice.
On Apology By Aaron Lazare Oxford University Press, 2004, 320 pages Explains what makes an effective apology and explores apology's role in forgiveness and reconciliation.
Destructive Emotions By Daniel Goleman Bantam, 2004, 448 pages Reporting on a ground-breaking dialogue between scientists and the Dalai Lama, this book explores how can we can develop peace with ourselves… The Psychology of Gratitude By Robert A. Emmons and Michael E. McCullough Oxford University Press, 2004, 384 pages This is a collection of academic articles on the science of gratitude.
Making Good By Wendy Fischman, Becca Solomon, DeborahGreenspan, and Howard Gardner Harvard University Press, 2004, 208 pages Harvard researchers explore how professional success and professional ethics don’t necessarily go hand-in-hand.
The Compassionate Classroom: Lessons That Nurture Wisdom and Empathy By Jane Dalton and Lyn Fairchild Chicago Review Press, 2004, 176 pages Dalton and Fairchild are interested in encouraging students to get to know and appreciate themselves, their community, and the world around them.
Leave No Child Behind By James Comer Yale University Press, 2004, 352 pages Comer offers a plan with real promise to improve the lives of children well beyond their time in the classroom.
Positive Psychology in Practice By P. Alex Linley, Stephen Joseph, and Martin E. P. Seligman Wiley, 2004, 770 pages This book distinguishes itself by not only reporting on breakthroughs in positive psychology, but by emphasizing how these findings can be applied.
Kids Working it Out By Tricia S. Jones and Randy Compton Jossey-Bass, 2003, 360 pages Offers educators and parents a guide to the most current and effective school-based conflict resolution programs, and shows how these… Forgiving and Reconciling By Everett L. Worthington IVP Books, 2003, 268 pages Considers forgiveness as an act of altruism rather than a strictly personal benefit.
Forgive for Good By Frederic Luskin HarperOne, 2003, 240 pages Outlines both the benefits of forgiveness and Luskin's nine-step method for giving up grudges.
Flourishing By Corey Keyes and Jonathan Haidt American Psychological Association, 2002, 335 pages Distinguished scholars explore what it means to lead a life wel-lived, expanding the scope of psychological research to encompass happiness,… Authentic Happiness By Martin E. P. Seligman Free Press, 2002, 336 pages A foundational text in positive psychology, explaining how to realize your potential for lasting fulfillment.
Bowling Alone By Robert D. Putnum Touchstone Books by Simon & Schuster, 2001, 544 pages Putnam shows how we have become increasingly disconnected from one another and how social structures have disintegrated.
From Detached Concern to Empathy By Jodi Halpern Oxford University Press, 2001, 115 pages Halpern considers ways for physicians to bring empathy into their practices to minimize the sense of detachment patients often feel while… Humanity: A Moral History of the Twentieth Century By Jonathan Glover Yale University Press, 2001, 480 pages Hiroshima and the Holocaust have something in common, and Humanity sets out to exploit the disturbing similarities in ways that can… Helping Clients Forgive By Robert D. Enright and Richard P. Fitzgibbons American Psychological Association, 2000, 376 pages Discusses forgiveness in psychotherapeutic and clinical settings.
The Seven Principles for Making Marriage Work By John Gottman Orion, 2000, 288 pages It only takes Gottman five minutes to predict, with 91 percent accuracy, which couples will eventually divorce.
No Future Without Forgiveness By Desmond Tutu Image, 1999, 304 pages Tutu urges forgiveness as a way to peace, even in the wake of atrocities.
Punished by Rewards By Alfie Kohn Mariner Books, 1999, 448 pages Kohn discusses why rewards, including praise, fail to promote lasting behavior change or enhance performance and frequently make things worse.
Exploring Forgiveness By Edited by Robert D. Enright and Joanna North University of Wisconsin Press, 1998, 208 pages A collection of essays that offer different perspectives on forgiveness, from the scientific to the personal.
The Art of Happiness By The Dalai Lama Riverhead Books, 1998, 352 pages A handbook for living. This is the book that kicked off the genre of happiness books, and it remains a cornerstone of the field of positive… Everyday Blessings By Jon and Myla Kabat-Zinn Hyperion, 1998, 416 pages The inner workings of mindful parenting of children of all ages.
Raising An Emotionally Intelligent Child By John Gottman, with Joan Declaire Simon & Schuster, 1998, 240 pages This is a great book for learning how to emotion coach your child, written by a highly regarded researcher.
Unto Others By Elliott Sober and David Sloan Wilson Harvard University Press, 1998, 416 pages Unselfish behavior exists--without pretense and without hidden motives. Our capacity for generosity as a goal in itself is the most important… Why Are All the Black Kids Sitting Together in the Cafeteria? By Beverly Daniel Tatum Basic Books, 1997, 288 An expert on the psychology of racism argues that our discomfort broaching the subject of race exacerbates racial divisions and inequalities.
Emotional Intelligence By Daniel Goleman Bantam, 1995, 384 pages This is the seminal book on emotional intelligence, written for a general audience.
Toward a Caring Society By Pearl M. Oliner and Samuel P. Oliner Praeger, 1995, 256 pages Promoting a sense of personal responsibility for the well-being of others is perhaps the greatest moral challenge we face. And making our… Wherever You Go, There You Are By Jon Kabat-Zinn Hyperion, 1994, 304 pages Sequel to "Full Catastrophe Living," Jon further delves into meditation and mindfulness theory.
The Altruistic Personality By Samuel P. Oliner and Pearl M. Oliner Touchstone, 1992, 448 pages Why, during the Holocaust, did some people risk their lives to help others while some stood passively by? Samuel Oliner, a Holocaust… Peace is Every Step By Thich Nhat Hanh Bantam, 1992, 160 pages Thich Nhat Hanh shows us how to make positive use of the very situations that usually pressure and antagonize us through mindful practices.
Full Catastrophe Living By Jon Kabat-Zinn Delta, 1990, 512 pages Using the wisdom of your body and mind to face stress, pain, and illness.
Flow Harper Perennial Modern Classics, 1990, 336 pages Flow, a state of deep enjoyment, creativity, and total involvement with life, is something we can cultivate with practice, according to this… Forgive and Forget By Lewis B. Smedes HarperOne, 1984, 192 pages Discusses the role of forgiveness in healing after others hurt us.
The Greater Good Science Center studies the psychology, sociology, and neuroscience of well-being, and teaches skills that foster a thriving, resilient, and compassionate society.
About this site Masthead Contact Donate Berkeley: University of California © 2023 The Greater Good Science Center at the University of California, Berkeley Hop Studios Project6 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn This article — and everything on this site — is funded by readers like you.
Become a subscribing member today. Help us continue to bring “the science of a meaningful life” to you and to millions around the globe.
To share the “science of a meaningful life” we rely on readers like you. Please donate today.
Please donate to the Greater Good Science Center today.
That’s why we don’t charge for our articles. But we can’t keep it up without your help. Please donate today.
