Vox homepage Give Give Newsletters Newsletters Site search Search Vox main menu Explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters More Explainers Israel-Hamas war 2024 election Supreme Court Buy less stuff Open enrollment What to watch All explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters We have a request Vox's journalism is free, because we believe that everyone deserves to understand the world they live in. Reader support helps us do that. Can you chip in to help keep Vox free for all? × Filed under: Future Perfect Technology Public Health Don’t let AI fears of the future overshadow present-day causes Fears of an AI future are taking up all our focus. But we shouldn’t forget present-day problems like global health and poverty By Kelsey Piper May 10, 2023, 9:10am EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Don’t let AI fears of the future overshadow present-day causes Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email A child receives a shot during the launch of the extension of the worlds first malaria vaccine (RTS, S) pilot program at Kimogoi Dispensary in Kenya on March 7, 2023.
AFP via Getty Images This story is part of a group of stories called Finding the best ways to do good.
Part of How do you do the most good in the world? A few years ago, my colleague Dylan Matthews wrote about an effective-altruism-inspired framework for answering that question: importance, neglectedness, and tractability.
Importance is obvious: How many beings are affected by the problem? How affected are they? The larger the scale and the higher the stakes, the higher the priority.
Tractability is also pretty obvious: How easy is it to make progress on the problem? Some problems are obviously big and important, but there are no good proposals to actually address them.
Neglectedness is, I think, the criterion that made effective altruism so interesting — and weird — back when Dylan wrote that piece. The claim is that if you want to do unusual good, you want to be looking for problems that few others are working on. That could be because they affect disadvantaged populations who have limited resources to advocate for themselves, or because they’re really weird and wild-sounding.
The focus on neglectedness meant that the effective altruist movement largely didn’t prioritize some important global problems that other organizations and movements were already addressing. These include subjects like climate change, which will lead to millions of unnecessary deaths in the upcoming decades, or global childhood vaccination, which has been one of the largest drivers of falling child mortality but which is fairly well-funded, or US education policy, which is important to get right but already has plenty of philanthropists with bright ideas throwing around huge sums.
Instead, there was a focus on things that few others were working on: cultivating replacement meat. Wild animal suffering. The threat of pandemics. AI risk.
Some of those bets now look strikingly prescient; some just as weird as they seemed a decade ago, and notably less tractable than was once hoped.
AI changes everything. Right? AI, in particular, has gone from a neglected issue to one everybody is talking about.
A decade ago, the belief that powerful AI systems posed a threat to life on Earth — while it’d been stressed by such intellectual luminaries as Alan Turing, Stephen Hawking , Stuart Russell , and more — was a major priority only for a few tiny nonprofits. Today, Demis Hassabis , who runs Google DeepMind, and Sam Altman, who runs OpenAI , have openly said they have serious concerns about the threat posed by more capable AI. The father of modern machine learning, Geoffrey Hinton , has quit Google to speak out more openly about AI risk. The White House has fielded questions about the possibility we’ll all die from AI, and met with tech leaders to figure out what to do about it.
Specific research approaches on AI risk may still be neglected, and there are still huge elements of the problem that have almost no one working on them. But I don’t think it makes sense to say that AI is neglected anymore. And that’s a change that has had profound effects on the community that started working on it.
AI appears to be really high-stakes. It may be mainstream, but that doesn’t mean it’s being adequately addressed. And it may fundamentally change the nature of all the other problems to work on in our world, from changing the character of global poverty and inequality to making new technologies possible to potentially unleashing new and dangerous weapons.
So should people like me, who are interested in the effective altruist lens on the world, keep trying to find neglected, underconsidered policy problems? Or should we focus on getting the big issue of our day exactly right? Remember what’s neglected I think it’s important to keep looking for neglected things. For one thing, I’m really glad that 10 years ago the effective altruism movement was willing to check out ideas that were ambitious, weird, and “crazy”-sounding. If they hadn’t, I think it’d have been notably harder to get to work on AI safety as a problem.
It seems to me that the fact that effective altruists took AI and pandemics so seriously before the rest of the world saw the light is one of the movement’s big wins, and it’d be a shame to lose the scope of vision and tolerance for weird big ideas that produced those wins.
But to maintain that openness to finding neglected things, it’s important not to get tunnel vision. Five years ago, I saw lots of people patiently explaining that while climate change was a huge problem, that didn’t mean you personally should work on it, because other things were also huge problems and had less resources and effort dedicated to them. (In other words, it wasn’t neglected.) If you did want to work on climate change, you probably wanted to find an important aspect of the problem that was underserved in the philanthropic world and work on that, instead of just working on anything tangentially related to climate change because it was so important.
These days, I see people making the same mistake with AI, thinking that because AI is so important, they should just do things that are about AI, no matter how many other people are working on that or how little reason there is to think they can help. I’d honestly be much more excited to see many of those people working on shrimp welfare or digital sentience or reducing great power conflict or preventing pandemics. Obviously, AI needs people working on it, but they should be thinking about what work is neglected and not just what work is important. Clustering around a problem is a terrible way to solve it; finding something no one else is doing, and doing it, is a pretty great one.
A version of this story was initially published in the Future Perfect newsletter.
Sign up here to subscribe! Will you support Vox’s explanatory journalism? Most news outlets make their money through advertising or subscriptions. But when it comes to what we’re trying to do at Vox, there are a couple reasons that we can't rely only on ads and subscriptions to keep the lights on.
First, advertising dollars go up and down with the economy. We often only know a few months out what our advertising revenue will be, which makes it hard to plan ahead.
Second, we’re not in the subscriptions business. Vox is here to help everyone understand the complex issues shaping the world — not just the people who can afford to pay for a subscription. We believe that’s an important part of building a more equal society. We can’t do that if we have a paywall.
That’s why we also turn to you, our readers, to help us keep Vox free.
If you also believe that everyone deserves access to trusted high-quality information, will you make a gift to Vox today? One-Time Monthly Annual $5 /month $10 /month $25 /month $50 /month Other $ /month /month We accept credit card, Apple Pay, and Google Pay. You can also contribute via The rise of artificial intelligence, explained How does AI actually work? 4 What is generative AI, and why is it suddenly everywhere? What happens when ChatGPT starts to feed on its own writing? The exciting new AI transforming search — and maybe everything — explained The tricky truth about how generative AI uses your data How is AI changing society? 19 What the stories we tell about robots tell us about ourselves Silicon Valley’s vision for AI? It’s religion, repackaged.
What will love and death mean in the age of machine intelligence? What if AI treats humans the way we treat animals? Can AI learn to love — and can we learn to love it? Black Mirror’s big AI episode has the wrong villain The ad industry is going all-in on AI The looming threat of AI to Hollywood, and why it should matter to you Can AI kill the greenscreen? What gets lost in the AI debate: It can be really fun How unbelievably realistic fake images could take over the internet Robot priests can bless you, advise you, and even perform your funeral AI art freaks me out. So I tried to make some.
How fake AI images can expand your mind AI art looks way too European An AI artist explains his workflow What will stop AI from flooding the internet with fake images? You’re going to see more AI-written articles whether you like it or not How “windfall profits” from AI companies could fund a universal basic income Show More Is AI coming for your job? 7 AI is flooding the workplace, and workers love it If you’re not using ChatGPT for your writing, you’re probably making a mistake Maybe AI can finally kill the cover letter Americans think AI is someone else’s problem Mark Zuckerberg’s not-so-secret plan to join the AI race The hottest new job is “head of AI” and nobody knows what they do Why Meta is giving away its extremely powerful AI model Should we be worried about AI? 9 Four different ways of understanding AI — and its risks AI experts are increasingly afraid of what they’re creating AI leaders (and Elon Musk) urge all labs to press pause on powerful AI The case for slowing down AI Are we racing toward AI catastrophe? The promise and peril of AI, according to 5 experts An unusual way to figure out if humanity is toast How AI could spark the next pandemic AI is supposedly the new nuclear weapons — but how similar are they, really? Who will regulate AI? 9 The $1 billion gamble to ensure AI doesn’t destroy humanity Finally, a realistic roadmap for getting AI companies in check Biden sure seems serious about not letting AI get out of control Can you safely build something that may kill you? Why an Air Force colonel — and many other experts — are so worried about the existential risk of AI Scared tech workers are scrambling to reinvent themselves as AI experts Panic about overhyped AI risk could lead to the wrong kind of regulation AI is a “tragedy of the commons.” We’ve got solutions for that.
The AI rules that US policymakers are considering, explained Most Read The controversy over TikTok and Osama bin Laden’s “Letter to America,” explained Formula 1 grew too fast. Now its new fans are tuning out.
Is the green texting bubble about to burst? The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes might be the best Hunger Games movie yet Why are so few people getting the latest Covid-19 vaccine? vox-mark Sign up for the newsletter Sentences The day's most important news stories, explained in your inbox.
Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required) Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
Chorus Facebook Twitter YouTube About us Our staff Privacy policy Ethics & Guidelines How we make money Contact us How to pitch Vox Contact Send Us a Tip Vox Media Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media
