Vox homepage Give Give Newsletters Newsletters Site search Search Vox main menu Explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters More Explainers Israel-Hamas war 2024 election Supreme Court Buy less stuff Open enrollment What to watch All explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters We have a request Vox's journalism is free, because we believe that everyone deserves to understand the world they live in. Reader support helps us do that. Can you chip in to help keep Vox free for all? × Filed under: Future Perfect Technology Artificial Intelligence Four different ways of understanding AI — and its risks Worldviews are clashing when it comes to artificial intelligence.
By Kelsey Piper Jun 14, 2023, 3:30pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Four different ways of understanding AI — and its risks Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Sam Altman, CEO of OpenAI, testifies in Washington, DC, on May 16, 2023.
Aaron Schwartz/Xinhua via Getty Images This story is part of a group of stories called Finding the best ways to do good.
Part of I sometimes think of there being two major divides in the world of artificial intelligence. One, of course, is whether the researchers working on advanced AI systems in everything from medicine to science are going to bring about catastrophe.
But the other one — which may be more important — is whether artificial intelligence is a big deal or another ultimately trivial piece of tech that we’ve somehow developed a societal obsession over. So we have some improved chatbots, goes the skeptical perspective. That won’t end our world — but neither will it vastly improve it.
One comparison I sometimes see is to cryptocurrency. A couple years ago, there were plenty of people in the tech world convinced that decentralized currencies were going to fundamentally transform the world we live in. But they mostly haven’t because it turns out that many things people care about, like fraud prevention and ease of use, actually depend on the centralization that crypto was meant to disassemble.
In general, when Silicon Valley declares that its topic de jour is the Biggest Deal In The History Of The World, the correct response is some healthy skepticism. That obsession may end up as the foundation of some cool new companies, it might contribute to changes in how we work and how we live, and it will almost certainly make some people very rich. But most new technologies do not have anywhere near the transformative effects on the world that their proponents claim.
I don’t think AI will be the next cryptocurrency. Large language model-based technologies like ChatGPT have seen much much faster adoption than cryptocurrency ever did. They’re replacing and transforming wildly more jobs.
 The rate of progress in this space just over the past five years is shocking. But I still want to do justice to the skeptical perspective here; most of the time, when we’re told something is an enormously big deal, it really isn’t.
Four quadrants of thinking about AI Building off that, you can visualize the range of attitudes about artificial intelligence as falling into four broad categories.
You have the people who think extremely powerful AI is on the horizon and going to transform our world. Some of them think that’ll happen and are convinced it’ll be a very, very good thing.
“Every child will have an AI tutor that is infinitely patient, infinitely compassionate, infinitely knowledgeable, infinitely helpful,” Marc Andreessen wrote in a recent blog post.
Every scientist will have an AI assistant/collaborator/partner that will greatly expand their scope of scientific research and achievement. Every artist, every engineer, every businessperson, every doctor, every caregiver will have the same in their worlds. ...
AI is quite possibly the most important — and best — thing our civilization has ever created, certainly on par with electricity and microchips, and probably beyond those. ...
The development and proliferation of AI — far from a risk that we should fear — is a moral obligation that we have to ourselves, to our children, and to our future.
We should be living in a much better world with AI, and now we can.
Call that the “it’ll be big, and it’ll be good” corner of the spectrum. Contrast that with, say, AI Impacts’ Katja Grace, whose recent survey found half of machine learning researchers saying there is a substantial chance that AI will lead to human extinction. “Progress in AI could lead to the creation of superhumanly smart artificial ‘people’ with goals that conflict with humanity’s interests — and the ability to pursue them autonomously,” she recently wrote in Time.
(In the middle, perhaps you’d place AI pioneer Yoshua Bengio, who has argued that “unless a breakthrough is achieved in AI alignment research ... we do not have strong safety guarantees. What remains unknown is the severity of the harm that may follow from a misalignment (and it would depend on the specifics of the misalignment).”) Then there’s the “AI won’t majorly transform our world — all that superintelligence stuff is nonsense — but it will still be bad” quadrant. “It is dangerous to distract ourselves with a fantasized AI-enabled utopia or apocalypse which promises either a ‘flourishing’ or ‘potentially catastrophic’ future,” several AI ethics researchers wrote in response to the recent Future of Life Institute letter calling for a pause on the training of extremely powerful systems. These superintelligence skeptics argued that focusing on the most extreme, existential outcomes of AI will distract us from worker exploitation and bias made possible by the technology today.
And last, there’s the “AI won’t majorly transform our world — all that superintelligence stuff is nonsense — but it will be good” quadrant, which includes plenty of people working on building AI tools for programmers. Many people I talk to who are in this corner worry that superintelligence concerns and bias or worker exploitation concerns are overblown. AI will be like most other technologies: good if we use it for good things, which we mostly will.
Talking past one another It often feels like, in conversations about AI, we’re talking past one another, and I think the four quadrants picture I proposed above makes it clearer why. The people who think AI is going to potentially be a world-shattering big deal have a lot to discuss with one another.
If AI really is going to be a huge force for good, for augmentation of human strengths and vast improvements to every aspect of the way we live, then overly delaying it to address safety concerns risks letting millions of people who could benefit from its advancements suffer and die unnecessarily. The people who think that AI development poses major world-altering risks need to make the case to the optimists that those risks are serious enough to justify the genuinely enormous costs of slowing down development of such a powerful technology. If AI is a world-altering big deal, then the high-level societal conversation we want to be having is about how best to safely get to the stage where it alters the world for the better.
But many people aren’t persuaded that AI is going to be a big deal at all and find the conversation about whether to speed up or slow down baffling. From their perspective, there is no world-altering new thing on the horizon at all, and we should aggressively regulate current AI systems (if they are mostly bad and we mostly want to limit their deployment) or leave current AI systems alone (if they are mostly good and we mostly want to encourage their deployment).
Either way, they’re baffled when people respond with measures aimed at safely guiding superintelligent systems. Andreessen’s claims about the enormous potential of AI are just as nonresponsive to their concerns as Grace’s case that we should steer away from an AI arms race that could get us all killed.
For the societal conversation about AI to go well, I think everyone could stand to entertain a bit more uncertainty. With AI moving as fast as it is, it’s really hard to confidently rule anything in — or out. We’re deeply confused about why our current techniques have worked so well so far and for how long we’ll keep seeing improvements. It’s entirely guesswork what breakthroughs are on the horizon. Andreessen’s glorious utopia seems like a real possibility to me. So does utter catastrophe. And so does a relatively humdrum decade passing without massive new breakthroughs.
Everyone might find we’re talking past each other a little less if we acknowledge a little more that the territory we’re entering on AI is as confusing as it is uncertain.
Will you support Vox’s explanatory journalism? Most news outlets make their money through advertising or subscriptions. But when it comes to what we’re trying to do at Vox, there are a couple reasons that we can't rely only on ads and subscriptions to keep the lights on.
First, advertising dollars go up and down with the economy. We often only know a few months out what our advertising revenue will be, which makes it hard to plan ahead.
Second, we’re not in the subscriptions business. Vox is here to help everyone understand the complex issues shaping the world — not just the people who can afford to pay for a subscription. We believe that’s an important part of building a more equal society. We can’t do that if we have a paywall.
That’s why we also turn to you, our readers, to help us keep Vox free.
If you also believe that everyone deserves access to trusted high-quality information, will you make a gift to Vox today? One-Time Monthly Annual $5 /month $10 /month $25 /month $50 /month Other $ /month /month We accept credit card, Apple Pay, and Google Pay. You can also contribute via The rise of artificial intelligence, explained How does AI actually work? 4 What is generative AI, and why is it suddenly everywhere? What happens when ChatGPT starts to feed on its own writing? The exciting new AI transforming search — and maybe everything — explained The tricky truth about how generative AI uses your data How is AI changing society? 19 What the stories we tell about robots tell us about ourselves Silicon Valley’s vision for AI? It’s religion, repackaged.
What will love and death mean in the age of machine intelligence? What if AI treats humans the way we treat animals? Can AI learn to love — and can we learn to love it? Black Mirror’s big AI episode has the wrong villain The ad industry is going all-in on AI The looming threat of AI to Hollywood, and why it should matter to you Can AI kill the greenscreen? What gets lost in the AI debate: It can be really fun How unbelievably realistic fake images could take over the internet Robot priests can bless you, advise you, and even perform your funeral AI art freaks me out. So I tried to make some.
How fake AI images can expand your mind AI art looks way too European An AI artist explains his workflow What will stop AI from flooding the internet with fake images? You’re going to see more AI-written articles whether you like it or not How “windfall profits” from AI companies could fund a universal basic income Show More Is AI coming for your job? 7 AI is flooding the workplace, and workers love it If you’re not using ChatGPT for your writing, you’re probably making a mistake Maybe AI can finally kill the cover letter Americans think AI is someone else’s problem Mark Zuckerberg’s not-so-secret plan to join the AI race The hottest new job is “head of AI” and nobody knows what they do Why Meta is giving away its extremely powerful AI model Should we be worried about AI? 9 AI experts are increasingly afraid of what they’re creating AI leaders (and Elon Musk) urge all labs to press pause on powerful AI The case for slowing down AI Are we racing toward AI catastrophe? The promise and peril of AI, according to 5 experts An unusual way to figure out if humanity is toast How AI could spark the next pandemic AI is supposedly the new nuclear weapons — but how similar are they, really? Don’t let AI fears of the future overshadow present-day causes Who will regulate AI? 9 The $1 billion gamble to ensure AI doesn’t destroy humanity Finally, a realistic roadmap for getting AI companies in check Biden sure seems serious about not letting AI get out of control Can you safely build something that may kill you? Why an Air Force colonel — and many other experts — are so worried about the existential risk of AI Scared tech workers are scrambling to reinvent themselves as AI experts Panic about overhyped AI risk could lead to the wrong kind of regulation AI is a “tragedy of the commons.” We’ve got solutions for that.
The AI rules that US policymakers are considering, explained Most Read The controversy over TikTok and Osama bin Laden’s “Letter to America,” explained Formula 1 grew too fast. Now its new fans are tuning out.
Is the green texting bubble about to burst? The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes might be the best Hunger Games movie yet Why are so few people getting the latest Covid-19 vaccine? vox-mark Sign up for the newsletter Sentences The day's most important news stories, explained in your inbox.
Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required) Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
Chorus Facebook Twitter YouTube About us Our staff Privacy policy Ethics & Guidelines How we make money Contact us How to pitch Vox Contact Send Us a Tip Vox Media Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media
