Vox homepage Give Give Newsletters Newsletters Site search Search Vox main menu Explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters More Explainers Israel-Hamas war 2024 election Supreme Court Buy less stuff Open enrollment What to watch All explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters We have a request Vox's journalism is free, because we believe that everyone deserves to understand the world they live in. Reader support helps us do that. Can you chip in to help keep Vox free for all? × Filed under: Future Perfect Technology Artificial Intelligence Are we racing toward AI catastrophe? As tech giants like Microsoft and Google compete to capture the AI market, safety could be an afterthought.
By Kelsey Piper Feb 9, 2023, 5:30am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Are we racing toward AI catastrophe? Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft, speaks during an event at the company’s headquarters in Redmond, Washington, on Tuesday, February 7, 2023.
Chona Kasinger/Bloomberg via Getty Images This story is part of a group of stories called Finding the best ways to do good.
Part of “The race starts today, and we’re going to move and move fast,” Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft, said at the company’s ChatGPT launch event on Tuesday.
That word — “race” — has been thrown around a lot lately in the AI world.
Google and Baidu are racing to compete with OpenAI and Microsoft’s ChatGPT as a key part of search, while Meta is racing not to be left in the dust.
Related AI experts are increasingly afraid of what they’re creating Tech is often a winner-takes-all sector — think Google controlling nearly 93 percent of the search market — but AI is poised to turbocharge those dynamics. Competitors like Microsoft and Baidu have a once-in-a-lifetime shot at displacing Google and becoming the internet search giant with AI-enabled, friendlier interface. Some have gone even farther, arguing there’s a “ generative AI arms race between the US and China ,” in which Microsoft-backed OpenAI’s insanely popular ChatGPT should be interpreted as the first salvo.
Why some people aren’t so thrilled that the AI race is on It’s a word that makes me wince, because AI strategy and policy people talk about it a lot too. But in their context, an “AI arms race” — whether between tech companies or between geopolitical rivals — could have negative consequences that go far beyond market share.
“When it comes to very powerful technologies — and obviously AI is going to be one of the most powerful ever — we need to be careful,” DeepMind founder and leader Demis Hassabis recently told Time.
 “Not everybody is thinking about those things. It’s like experimentalists, many of whom don’t realize they’re holding dangerous material.” “It’s important *NOT* to ‘move fast and break things’ for tech as important as AI,” he wrote on Twitter in September. The usual Silicon Valley spirit — try things, see how they fail, try again — has brought us some incredibly cool consumer technology and fun websites. But it’s not how you’d build a skyscraper or a manned rocket, and powerful AI systems are much more in the latter category, where you want robust engineering for reliability.
vox-mark Sign up for the newsletter Future Perfect Each week, we explore unique solutions to some of the world's biggest problems.
Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required) Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
OpenAI’s ChatGPT was the product release that set off Google, Baidu, and Microsoft’s jostling for the lead in AI development, but that startup’s leadership, too, has expressed some dismay at where it’s taking us. “The bad case — and I think this is important to say — is like lights out for all of us ... I think it’s impossible to overstate the importance of AI safety and alignment work. I would like to see much, much more happening,” OpenAI’s CEO Sam Altman said in a recent interview.
(He also called Google’s response to ChatGPT, ramping up their own AI release and “recalibrating” their concern for safety, a “disappointing” development: “openai will continually decrease the level of risk we are comfortable taking with new models as they get more powerful, not the other way around.”) Why we should try to not have a race for powerful AI Do I care if Microsoft steals some market share in search from Google? Not at all. Bing away. But the recent flurry of declarations that big tech is all in on the AI race has still made me nervous.
One easy way that we could, as some analysts put it, “ stumble into AI catastrophe ” is if researchers developing powerful systems ignore warning signs and carelessly train more and more powerful systems using the approaches that worked fine for weak, early-stage systems — but which fall apart on an AI system that’s more sophisticated, persuasive, and potentially able to deceive its users.
Here’s a thought experiment: Imagine that you can always tell if your 3-year-old is lying to you, so your plan to dissuade him from misbehavior is just to ask if he’s misbehaving. Works great, but if you stick to the same plan on your more sophisticated teenager, it won’t work so well.
The rise of artificial intelligence, explained How does AI actually work? How is AI changing our society? Is AI coming for your job? Should we be worried about AI? Who will regulate AI? In general, most researchers aren’t reckless and don’t want to risk the world. If their lab is building AI and they start noticing terrifying signs of misalignment, deceptive behavior, advanced planning, etc., they’ll be alarmed, and they’ll stop! Even researchers who are skeptical today that alignment is a serious concern will, if they see it in their lab, want to address it before they put bigger and bigger systems out.
Why competition can be great — and dangerous But that’s what might happen in a lab. In an economic race with enormous winner-takes-all stakes, a company is primarily thinking about whether to deploy their system before a competitor. Slowing down for safety checks risks that someone else will get there first. In geopolitical AI arms race scenarios, the fear is that China will get to AI before the US and have an incredibly powerful weapon — and that, in anticipation of that, the US may push its own unready systems into widespread deployment.
Even if alignment is a very solvable problem, trying to do complex technical work on incredibly powerful systems while everyone is in a rush to beat a competitor is a recipe for failure.
Some actors working on artificial general intelligence, or AGI, have planned significantly to avoid this dangerous trap: OpenAI, for instance, has terms in its charter specifically aimed at preventing an AI race once systems are powerful enough: “We are concerned about late-stage AGI development becoming a competitive race without time for adequate safety precautions. Therefore, if a value-aligned, safety-conscious project comes close to building AGI before we do, we commit to stop competing with and start assisting this project. We will work out specifics in case-by-case agreements, but a typical triggering condition might be “a better-than-even chance of success in the next two years.” I am generally optimistic about human nature. No one actively wants to deploy a system that will kill us all, so if we can get good enough visibility into the problem of alignment, then it’ll be clear to engineers why they need a solution. But eager declarations that the race is on make me nervous.
Another great part of human nature is that we are often incredibly competitive — and while that competition can lead to great advancements, it can also lead to great destruction. It’s the Cold War that drove the space race, but it was also WWII that drove the creation of the atomic bomb. If winner-takes-all competition is the attitude we bring to one of the most powerful technologies in human history, I don’t think humanity is going to win out.
A version of this story was initially published in the Future Perfect newsletter.
Sign up here to subscribe! Will you support Vox’s explanatory journalism? Most news outlets make their money through advertising or subscriptions. But when it comes to what we’re trying to do at Vox, there are a couple reasons that we can't rely only on ads and subscriptions to keep the lights on.
First, advertising dollars go up and down with the economy. We often only know a few months out what our advertising revenue will be, which makes it hard to plan ahead.
Second, we’re not in the subscriptions business. Vox is here to help everyone understand the complex issues shaping the world — not just the people who can afford to pay for a subscription. We believe that’s an important part of building a more equal society. We can’t do that if we have a paywall.
That’s why we also turn to you, our readers, to help us keep Vox free.
If you also believe that everyone deserves access to trusted high-quality information, will you make a gift to Vox today? One-Time Monthly Annual $5 /month $10 /month $25 /month $50 /month Other $ /month /month We accept credit card, Apple Pay, and Google Pay. You can also contribute via The rise of artificial intelligence, explained How does AI actually work? 4 What is generative AI, and why is it suddenly everywhere? What happens when ChatGPT starts to feed on its own writing? The exciting new AI transforming search — and maybe everything — explained The tricky truth about how generative AI uses your data How is AI changing society? 19 What the stories we tell about robots tell us about ourselves Silicon Valley’s vision for AI? It’s religion, repackaged.
What will love and death mean in the age of machine intelligence? What if AI treats humans the way we treat animals? Can AI learn to love — and can we learn to love it? Black Mirror’s big AI episode has the wrong villain The ad industry is going all-in on AI The looming threat of AI to Hollywood, and why it should matter to you Can AI kill the greenscreen? What gets lost in the AI debate: It can be really fun How unbelievably realistic fake images could take over the internet Robot priests can bless you, advise you, and even perform your funeral AI art freaks me out. So I tried to make some.
How fake AI images can expand your mind AI art looks way too European An AI artist explains his workflow What will stop AI from flooding the internet with fake images? You’re going to see more AI-written articles whether you like it or not How “windfall profits” from AI companies could fund a universal basic income Show More Is AI coming for your job? 7 AI is flooding the workplace, and workers love it If you’re not using ChatGPT for your writing, you’re probably making a mistake Maybe AI can finally kill the cover letter Americans think AI is someone else’s problem Mark Zuckerberg’s not-so-secret plan to join the AI race The hottest new job is “head of AI” and nobody knows what they do Why Meta is giving away its extremely powerful AI model Should we be worried about AI? 9 Four different ways of understanding AI — and its risks AI experts are increasingly afraid of what they’re creating AI leaders (and Elon Musk) urge all labs to press pause on powerful AI The case for slowing down AI The promise and peril of AI, according to 5 experts An unusual way to figure out if humanity is toast How AI could spark the next pandemic AI is supposedly the new nuclear weapons — but how similar are they, really? Don’t let AI fears of the future overshadow present-day causes Who will regulate AI? 9 The $1 billion gamble to ensure AI doesn’t destroy humanity Finally, a realistic roadmap for getting AI companies in check Biden sure seems serious about not letting AI get out of control Can you safely build something that may kill you? Why an Air Force colonel — and many other experts — are so worried about the existential risk of AI Scared tech workers are scrambling to reinvent themselves as AI experts Panic about overhyped AI risk could lead to the wrong kind of regulation AI is a “tragedy of the commons.” We’ve got solutions for that.
The AI rules that US policymakers are considering, explained Most Read The controversy over TikTok and Osama bin Laden’s “Letter to America,” explained Formula 1 grew too fast. Now its new fans are tuning out.
Is the green texting bubble about to burst? The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes might be the best Hunger Games movie yet Why are so few people getting the latest Covid-19 vaccine? vox-mark Sign up for the newsletter Sentences The day's most important news stories, explained in your inbox.
Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required) Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
Chorus Facebook Twitter YouTube About us Our staff Privacy policy Ethics & Guidelines How we make money Contact us How to pitch Vox Contact Send Us a Tip Vox Media Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media
