Vox homepage Give Give Newsletters Newsletters Site search Search Vox main menu Explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters More Explainers Israel-Hamas war 2024 election Supreme Court Buy less stuff Open enrollment What to watch All explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters We have a request Vox's journalism is free, because we believe that everyone deserves to understand the world they live in. Reader support helps us do that. Can you chip in to help keep Vox free for all? × Filed under: Technology Future of Work Americans think AI is someone else’s problem AI is coming to the workplace, but most people think it won’t affect them much.
By Rani Molla @ranimolla Apr 20, 2023, 10:00am EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Americans think AI is someone else’s problem Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email While some are embracing AI in the workplace, there are a lot of applications that people find distasteful.
Getty Images/iStockphoto Part of AI is probably going to affect your job. We just don’t yet know when or how much — or how to feel about it exactly.
Most Americans agree that AI will have a major impact on workers in the next 20 years, and they’re more likely to say it will hurt more than help, according to a new survey from the Pew Research Center.
 But at the same time, most Americans think AI will have little or no impact on them personally.
In other words, AI will harm thee, but not me.
That’s a similar sentiment to what Vox heard talking to workers who’ve deployed generative AI tools like ChatGPT, Bing, and Bard at work. Knowledge workers said the software helps them save time and avoid drudge work, allowing them to write code more quickly or spin up business memos or marketing copy with just a few prompts. But, to a person, these workers felt that even though others’ jobs might be at risk of being obviated by AI, theirs was likely safe thanks in part to their mastery over those tools.
The rise of artificial intelligence, explained How does AI actually work? How is AI changing our society? Is AI coming for your job? Should we be worried about AI? Who will regulate AI? The refrain was frequently a version of this tweet : “AI will not replace you. A person using AI will.” While people are certainly embracing some forms of AI, they find some types, like those that would hire, fire, or monitor them, distasteful. That could be an issue depending on how exactly AI becomes integrated into the workplace.
The truth is that while AI tools show a remarkable ability to replicate what was often high-paid human work, we don’t yet know if that will translate into less work for humans or simply different — and perhaps even better — work. A recent study by OpenAI, the makers of ChatGPT and its more advanced successor GPT-4, found that high-paid jobs that require degrees had the most exposure to the capabilities of these tools. The study didn’t say whether those jobs would be erased or augmented by the technology.
Other forms of AI have been incorporated into various workplace applications in both manual and computer-assisted work for the last decade, according to Julia Dhar, managing director, partner, and global lead of the Behavioral Science Lab at Boston Consulting Group. In manufacturing, that’s meant AI decides when to start producing one good instead of another based on sales and other demand forecasts. In services, it’s shown up in call centers, prompting workers to offer different responses based on how the interaction progresses or even the tone of a person’s voice.
But so far, thanks to the costs and technical capabilities needed to scale AI in the workplace, AI penetration in the workplace is still low. Dhar sees that as an opportunity to make sure that the way AI is used at work is beneficial both to companies and to workers.
“I think that we have focused not enough of the public conversation around trust,” Dhar said. “We’ve talked about trustworthy AI, but we have talked hardly at all about trust between employers and employees, and how this could be a trust-building opportunity rather than a trust-destroying opportunity.” Related Maybe AI can finally kill the cover letter The Pew study, which surveyed more than 11,000 Americans, suggests that trust is lacking. While people like certain types of AI at work, lots of it has them on edge, specifically when it’s used in hiring, firing, and monitoring.
Seventy-one percent opposed the idea of AI making final hiring decisions (just 7 percent were for it) and 55 percent were against its use in making firing decisions, according to the Pew report. A plurality didn’t want it to be used to review applications at all or to decide who gets promotions. Many felt AI lacked the human touch that would allow it to see things like the potential in a candidate who didn’t exactly match a job description or how well a person might get along with their coworkers.
The use of AI is already commonplace in so-called applicant tracking software , which most major companies use in their hiring process. This widespread technology allows companies to use keywords or criteria — like whether or not they have a college degree or a gap in their resume — to automatically winnow down the mass of incoming online applications. But many, including employers themselves, fear that those broad strokes could end up excluding people who would be perfectly good candidates.
Jason Schloetzer, associate professor at Georgetown University’s McDonough School of Business, found that more than half of human resource managers are either using AI-based tech in hiring or intend to do so very soon. He says that AI is creeping into more advanced levels of the hiring process , like the first round of interviews, where he says candidates respond to employer questions into a webcam, and employers use AI to analyze their response and even body language to decide whether or not they make it to the next round.
“It’s prevalent enough that our students are being trained by career services on how to handle those interviews,” Schloetzer added.
In a way, these practices have encouraged workers and candidates to use AI themselves. Many are turning to tools like ChatGPT to write their resumes or cover letters — in part to offload a tedious task, but also as a way to fight back in the hiring process, bot to bot.
Unsurprisingly, most people surveyed by Pew also oppose using AI in creepier ways, like monitoring their movements and facial expressions while they work or tracking when they’re at their desks and what exactly they’re doing. This sort of technology has become increasingly common in the workplace, from Amazon warehouses to the office, since the start of the pandemic as bosses, leery of remote work and quiet quitting, try to ensure productivity. But as the Wall Street Journal reported , there’s little proof the technology works, and some evidence suggests it can even be counterproductive, causing people to be demoralized and less productive. Such so-called productivity trackers have also led to a rise in people trying to outwit them, with hacks like mouse jigglers — devices that can physically move a mouse on a desk with no human present — that make it look like they’re working.
Related The promise and peril of AI, according to 5 experts Vox spoke with a professional services worker at a midsize marketing company that uses activity monitoring software to track remote workers’ keystrokes and mouse movements and takes occasional photographs to check that she’s at her computer. The employee, who asked that we not use her name so as not to get her in trouble at work, said that while she finds the software annoying, she’s developed ways to get around it. She browses social media on her personal phone and makes sure not to slack off for more than 10 minutes at a time so the software doesn’t flag her to her bosses.
Overall, she’s ambivalent and doesn’t think it affects her productivity one way or another. She does believe there’s a bright side in that she doesn’t do any work that’s not at her computer, so when she’s off she’s really off.
“I hate that I don’t hate it,” she said, but added that she’d probably opt next time for a job that didn’t track her. As for the facial monitoring, she said, “If they want to see how busted I show up for my remote job, then good for them.” BCG’s Dhar, however, warns against such monitoring AI, saying it causes companies to “mistake activity for productivity.” “It really sends a message to people that doing anything that is observable is better than doing the very often unobservable hard work of human cognition or relationship building or spotting safety hazards,” she said.
For now, it’s impossible to predict how exactly AI adoption will impact the workplace.
Georgetown’s Schloetzer said it will likely mean some jobs are lost, some are added, but for the most part, a lot of existing jobs will be reconfigured. What’s certain is that prominent use of AI in the workplace will eventually happen.
“I don’t even think it’s worth debating this stuff,” Schloetzer said “I think we just need to be prepared for it to be rolled out.” Will you support Vox’s explanatory journalism? Most news outlets make their money through advertising or subscriptions. But when it comes to what we’re trying to do at Vox, there are a couple reasons that we can't rely only on ads and subscriptions to keep the lights on.
First, advertising dollars go up and down with the economy. We often only know a few months out what our advertising revenue will be, which makes it hard to plan ahead.
Second, we’re not in the subscriptions business. Vox is here to help everyone understand the complex issues shaping the world — not just the people who can afford to pay for a subscription. We believe that’s an important part of building a more equal society. We can’t do that if we have a paywall.
That’s why we also turn to you, our readers, to help us keep Vox free.
If you also believe that everyone deserves access to trusted high-quality information, will you make a gift to Vox today? One-Time Monthly Annual $5 /month $10 /month $25 /month $50 /month Other $ /month /month We accept credit card, Apple Pay, and Google Pay. You can also contribute via The rise of artificial intelligence, explained How does AI actually work? 4 What is generative AI, and why is it suddenly everywhere? What happens when ChatGPT starts to feed on its own writing? The exciting new AI transforming search — and maybe everything — explained The tricky truth about how generative AI uses your data How is AI changing society? 19 What the stories we tell about robots tell us about ourselves Silicon Valley’s vision for AI? It’s religion, repackaged.
What will love and death mean in the age of machine intelligence? What if AI treats humans the way we treat animals? Can AI learn to love — and can we learn to love it? Black Mirror’s big AI episode has the wrong villain The ad industry is going all-in on AI The looming threat of AI to Hollywood, and why it should matter to you Can AI kill the greenscreen? What gets lost in the AI debate: It can be really fun How unbelievably realistic fake images could take over the internet Robot priests can bless you, advise you, and even perform your funeral AI art freaks me out. So I tried to make some.
How fake AI images can expand your mind AI art looks way too European An AI artist explains his workflow What will stop AI from flooding the internet with fake images? You’re going to see more AI-written articles whether you like it or not How “windfall profits” from AI companies could fund a universal basic income Show More Is AI coming for your job? 6 AI is flooding the workplace, and workers love it If you’re not using ChatGPT for your writing, you’re probably making a mistake Maybe AI can finally kill the cover letter Mark Zuckerberg’s not-so-secret plan to join the AI race The hottest new job is “head of AI” and nobody knows what they do Why Meta is giving away its extremely powerful AI model Should we be worried about AI? 10 Four different ways of understanding AI — and its risks AI experts are increasingly afraid of what they’re creating AI leaders (and Elon Musk) urge all labs to press pause on powerful AI The case for slowing down AI Are we racing toward AI catastrophe? The promise and peril of AI, according to 5 experts An unusual way to figure out if humanity is toast How AI could spark the next pandemic AI is supposedly the new nuclear weapons — but how similar are they, really? Don’t let AI fears of the future overshadow present-day causes Who will regulate AI? 9 The $1 billion gamble to ensure AI doesn’t destroy humanity Finally, a realistic roadmap for getting AI companies in check Biden sure seems serious about not letting AI get out of control Can you safely build something that may kill you? Why an Air Force colonel — and many other experts — are so worried about the existential risk of AI Scared tech workers are scrambling to reinvent themselves as AI experts Panic about overhyped AI risk could lead to the wrong kind of regulation AI is a “tragedy of the commons.” We’ve got solutions for that.
The AI rules that US policymakers are considering, explained Most Read The controversy over TikTok and Osama bin Laden’s “Letter to America,” explained Is the green texting bubble about to burst? Formula 1 grew too fast. Now its new fans are tuning out.
The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes might be the best Hunger Games movie yet Why are so few people getting the latest Covid-19 vaccine? vox-mark Sign up for the newsletter Sentences The day's most important news stories, explained in your inbox.
Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required) Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
Chorus Facebook Twitter YouTube About us Our staff Privacy policy Ethics & Guidelines How we make money Contact us How to pitch Vox Contact Send Us a Tip Vox Media Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media
