Vox homepage Give Give Newsletters Newsletters Site search Search Vox main menu Explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters More Explainers Israel-Hamas war 2024 election Supreme Court Buy less stuff Open enrollment What to watch All explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters We have a request Vox's journalism is free, because we believe that everyone deserves to understand the world they live in. Reader support helps us do that. Can you chip in to help keep Vox free for all? × Filed under: Technology Artificial Intelligence Future of Work Scared tech workers are scrambling to reinvent themselves as AI experts The AI specialist is the new “it” girl in tech.
By Rani Molla @ranimolla Jun 28, 2023, 7:30am EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Scared tech workers are scrambling to reinvent themselves as AI experts Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Tech workers pivot to AI Getty Images Part of While tech workers are dealing with pay stagnation, layoffs , and generally less demand for their skills than they’d enjoyed for the past decade, the artificial intelligence specialist has become the new “it” girl in Silicon Valley.
“All of the products that we’re working on, that we’re seeing today, are shifting toward that AI-powered type of operation,” said Zac Brown, founder of the AI startup NonprofitsHQ.
 “This is a rough time to be a regular software engineer.” When Brown was looking for jobs last year, he hadn’t updated his resume to focus on all the work he’d done with AI in his previous roles. Previously, the 28-year-old had been used to companies tripping over themselves to talk to an experienced software engineer, but all of a sudden, he wasn’t seeing the same interest.
“I was a software engineer, because that’s what I always was,” Brown told Vox. “I realized this last time I was looking, you have to highlight the AI that you’ve got, because that is what’s attractive to companies right now.” vox-mark Sign up for the newsletter Vox Technology Get weekly dispatches from Vox writers about how technology is changing the world — and how it’s changing us.
Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required) Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
While tech companies and investors pull back seemingly everywhere else in tech, money is still flowing into AI , which the industry sees as the next big thing. That’s meant outsize demand, pay, and perks for people who can facilitate that kind of work. This situation is incredibly attractive to people who’ve recently been laid off in tech or who worry that their tech jobs don’t have the upward mobility they used to. To capitalize on this, people in adjacent tech careers are attempting to reposition themselves where the good jobs are. Short of getting another degree, many are hoping to do so with on-the-job training, boot camps, and self-education.
“If you take a look at job openings right now on job boards, the job listings are more emphasized on software engineers who have a background in AI,” technical recruiter Eddiana Rosen told Vox. (Data from the salary site Salary.com showed that in the 12 months ending May 31, 2023, employers sought AI-related skills in 1.1 million job postings, more than twice the amount for the same period a year earlier.) “On top of that, when it’s time to negotiate for a higher salary, those people will have more advantages and more leverage.” People with AI skills are paid on average 27 percent more than typical tech workers, according to data furnished by the compensation software company Payscale.
 The median annual salary for an AI engineer was $243,500 in May, according to data by the tech career comparison site Levels.fyi , compared with $166,750 for non-AI engineers. And their pay is growing at a faster rate.
Comprehensive.io , which tracks compensation across more than 3,000 tech companies, found that pay for senior software engineers who specialize in AI and machine learning grew 4 percent since the beginning of the year, while pay for senior software engineers overall stayed flat.
A.Team , a firm that connects groups of tech talent with companies looking to hire their services, said 30 percent of their new pipeline over the last month was AI-related, a fivefold jump over the previous three months.
Big tech companies are scouting AI talent from universities, even while rescinding offers for non-AI talent, says Zuhayeer Musa, co-founder of Levels.fyi, which also helps candidates negotiate offers. Those companies are also trying their best to hold on to the talent they have, offering key AI engineers multimillion-dollar retention bonuses lest they leave for more exciting opportunities at other firms, especially smaller ones where the work might be more interesting and the potential for growth, both financial and technical, higher.
“It’s kind of a bonanza,” Musa said. “We’re seeing people go from everywhere to everywhere.” In contrast to crypto or web3, few people think AI will be a flash in the pan. Just how prevalent it becomes, of course, will depend largely on how profitable business use cases for it are. Already, tech workers are losing jobs to AI , so many figure they might as well get ahead of it and get in on the action. They’re turning to communities on Reddit as well as to friends and colleagues already in the field to find out how they can pivot to lucrative jobs in AI rather than having their jobs replaced by AI.
For Brown, who is no longer looking for work since he founded his own AI startup, selling himself was a matter of advertising skills he already had and that he’d picked up on the job. A previous employer gave him the opportunity and the time to work with another team that was working with machine learning and AI, so that he could fill in his skills gap. Brown said that while a boot camp or online course might provide a good introduction to the skills needed for AI, the best instruction comes from working on it yourself.
“A lot of that is going to come in actually doing it, actually working on these systems, messing it up, making mistakes, learning from those, and pushing forward,” he said.
That’s not always easy to do, especially in an economy where even tech workers are being laid off and where companies are better positioned to hire people who already have those skills.
Taylor, a software developer in North Carolina who asked that we not use his full name so as not to jeopardize his employment, plans to moonlight at a friend’s AI startup, where he’s hoping he’ll be able to learn from a back-end engineer there who’s experienced in machine learning. The goal isn’t to become an AI engineer per se, but rather to be able to do his job better, since he believes AI will creep into regular software development work in the near future.
“It’ll either help me more in my current job or help me get the next job,” Taylor, 41, said.
Eric Lamy, a customer data product manager who typically works alongside engineers, is trying to develop his knowledge around AI governance because he sees it as a future need at his current job, where he sits on a corporate cybersecurity task force and where there’s a lot of interest in how to responsibly deploy AI. To up his understanding of the new technology, the 37-year-old is using a body of knowledge document released by the International Association of Privacy Professionals, which will soon provide certification and training for AI governance professionals, to guide his independent study.
“It’s not so much that the transition is relying on a gap that’s in my current career; it just doesn’t really exist yet as a function,” Lamy said. “I see this as a place where people, who are able to get on board early and learn some of these frameworks and apply this governance mindset, have an opportunity to really do some good work.” Nitin Pathak , a data scientist at Microsoft , recently got a six-month professional certification in machine learning and AI from Berkeley so he could perform better at his job. “It really helped me draw those connections between machine learning and AI concepts, and which models would make sense for different business situations,” he said.
“I’ve been working in technology for several decades, and in today’s world, it’s so clear that we’ll all have many careers,” he added. “I love technology and I don’t want to be obsolete. I want to be on the cutting edge.” Even those who studied AI as part of an advanced degree are always working to stay abreast of the tech.
Nicole Hedley, a 30-year-old fullstack product engineer who runs her own consulting company that specializes in generative AI, had taken artificial intelligence and machine learning courses while getting her computer science degree. She’s also had plenty of hands-on exposure to new AI projects, especially in the last year when they’ve dominated her workload. Even still, she’s constantly trying to keep up with new advances in AI.
“Because there are so many recent developments, it’s a constant learning process,” Hedley, said.
Of course, just because you become fluent in AI doesn’t mean your career is bulletproof.
Alexander Whedon, a software engineer who specializes in AI, was laid off from Meta earlier this year, despite his skills. But now he considers that loss a “blessing in disguise.” As a freelancer, Whedon, also 30, gets to work on a wider variety of projects for a wide variety of companies.
“I enjoy this work so much more and I honestly make more now,” Whedon, who advocates for trying to build your own AI projects rather than going through boot camps, said.
“The future of any company isn’t sure,” he added. “But the future potential of AI I think is very potent.” A version of this story was also published in the Vox technology newsletter.
Sign up here so you don’t miss the next one! Will you support Vox’s explanatory journalism? Most news outlets make their money through advertising or subscriptions. But when it comes to what we’re trying to do at Vox, there are a couple reasons that we can't rely only on ads and subscriptions to keep the lights on.
First, advertising dollars go up and down with the economy. We often only know a few months out what our advertising revenue will be, which makes it hard to plan ahead.
Second, we’re not in the subscriptions business. Vox is here to help everyone understand the complex issues shaping the world — not just the people who can afford to pay for a subscription. We believe that’s an important part of building a more equal society. We can’t do that if we have a paywall.
That’s why we also turn to you, our readers, to help us keep Vox free.
If you also believe that everyone deserves access to trusted high-quality information, will you make a gift to Vox today? One-Time Monthly Annual $5 /month $10 /month $25 /month $50 /month Other $ /month /month We accept credit card, Apple Pay, and Google Pay. You can also contribute via The rise of artificial intelligence, explained How does AI actually work? 4 What is generative AI, and why is it suddenly everywhere? What happens when ChatGPT starts to feed on its own writing? The exciting new AI transforming search — and maybe everything — explained The tricky truth about how generative AI uses your data How is AI changing society? 19 What the stories we tell about robots tell us about ourselves Silicon Valley’s vision for AI? It’s religion, repackaged.
What will love and death mean in the age of machine intelligence? What if AI treats humans the way we treat animals? Can AI learn to love — and can we learn to love it? Black Mirror’s big AI episode has the wrong villain The ad industry is going all-in on AI The looming threat of AI to Hollywood, and why it should matter to you Can AI kill the greenscreen? What gets lost in the AI debate: It can be really fun How unbelievably realistic fake images could take over the internet Robot priests can bless you, advise you, and even perform your funeral AI art freaks me out. So I tried to make some.
How fake AI images can expand your mind AI art looks way too European An AI artist explains his workflow What will stop AI from flooding the internet with fake images? You’re going to see more AI-written articles whether you like it or not How “windfall profits” from AI companies could fund a universal basic income Show More Is AI coming for your job? 7 AI is flooding the workplace, and workers love it If you’re not using ChatGPT for your writing, you’re probably making a mistake Maybe AI can finally kill the cover letter Americans think AI is someone else’s problem Mark Zuckerberg’s not-so-secret plan to join the AI race The hottest new job is “head of AI” and nobody knows what they do Why Meta is giving away its extremely powerful AI model Should we be worried about AI? 10 Four different ways of understanding AI — and its risks AI experts are increasingly afraid of what they’re creating AI leaders (and Elon Musk) urge all labs to press pause on powerful AI The case for slowing down AI Are we racing toward AI catastrophe? The promise and peril of AI, according to 5 experts An unusual way to figure out if humanity is toast How AI could spark the next pandemic AI is supposedly the new nuclear weapons — but how similar are they, really? Don’t let AI fears of the future overshadow present-day causes Who will regulate AI? 8 The $1 billion gamble to ensure AI doesn’t destroy humanity Finally, a realistic roadmap for getting AI companies in check Biden sure seems serious about not letting AI get out of control Can you safely build something that may kill you? Why an Air Force colonel — and many other experts — are so worried about the existential risk of AI Panic about overhyped AI risk could lead to the wrong kind of regulation AI is a “tragedy of the commons.” We’ve got solutions for that.
The AI rules that US policymakers are considering, explained Most Read The controversy over TikTok and Osama bin Laden’s “Letter to America,” explained Is the green texting bubble about to burst? Formula 1 grew too fast. Now its new fans are tuning out.
The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes might be the best Hunger Games movie yet Why are so few people getting the latest Covid-19 vaccine? vox-mark Sign up for the newsletter Sentences The day's most important news stories, explained in your inbox.
Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required) Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
Chorus Facebook Twitter YouTube About us Our staff Privacy policy Ethics & Guidelines How we make money Contact us How to pitch Vox Contact Send Us a Tip Vox Media Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media
