The Verge homepage The Verge homepage The Verge The Verge logo.
/ Tech / Reviews / Science / Entertainment / More Menu Expand Menu Google / Tech / Artificial Intelligence Google’s big AI push will combine Brain and DeepMind into one team Google’s big AI push will combine Brain and DeepMind into one team / Called Google DeepMind, the new group is led by DeepMind CEO Demis Hassabis, as former AI lead Jeff Dean steps into the role of chief scientist.
By Emma Roth and Jay Peters | Share this story DeepMind, the artificial intelligence company acquired by Alphabet in 2014, is merging with Google’s Brain team to form Google DeepMind. In a post shared by Alphabet and Google CEO Sundar Pichai , he says the combined groups will “significantly accelerate our progress in AI.” DeepMind CEO Demis Hassabis will serve as the CEO of Google DeepMind, where Pichai says he will “lead the development of our most capable and responsible general AI systems.” Meanwhile, Jeff Dean, Google’s former senior vice president of Google Research and Health who co-founded the Brain team, will take on the role of Google Research and Google DeepMind’s chief scientist.
Related Google employees label AI chatbot Bard ‘worse than useless’ and ‘a pathological liar’ Bing, Bard, and ChatGPT: AI chatbots are rewriting the internet “Together, in close collaboration with our fantastic colleagues across the Google Product Areas, we have a real opportunity to deliver AI research and products that dramatically improve the lives of billions of people, transform industries, advance science, and serve diverse communities,” Hassabis writes in a memo to employees.
 “By creating Google DeepMind, I believe we can get to that future faster. Building ever more capable and general AI, safely and responsibly, demands that we solve some of the hardest scientific and engineering challenges of our time.” DeepMind and Google have butted heads in the past. In 2021, DeepMind reportedly lost its yearslong bid to gain more independence from Google as the tech giant began pushing DeepMind toward commercializing its work. However, as Google dives further into the AI industry, it likely wants to combine its research teams to bolster its efforts.
In March, Google opened early access to its ChatGPT and Bing Chat rival, Bard.
 It’s pretty weird and often didn’t fare as well as its competitors in tests we ran shortly after it launched.
 Although Pichai has promised that upgrades are on the way , Google employees reportedly criticized the product ahead of launch and urged leadership not to release it.
Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI Windows is now an app for iPhones, iPads, Macs, and PCs Screens are good, actually Apple pulls its ads from X after Musk’s antisemitic posts What happened to Sam Altman? Verge Deals / Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we've tested sent to your inbox daily.
From our sponsor Advertiser Content From More from this stream Bing, Bard, and ChatGPT: How AI is rewriting the internet OpenAI’s flagship AI model has gotten more trustworthy but easier to trick Oct 17, 2023, 9:38 PM UTC The environmental impact of the AI revolution is starting to come into focus Oct 10, 2023, 3:00 PM UTC The BBC is blocking OpenAI data scraping but is open to AI-powered journalism Oct 6, 2023, 8:16 PM UTC OpenAI may make its own chips to power future generative AI growth.
Oct 6, 2023, 1:52 PM UTC Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell Or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status How We Rate and Review Products Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement The Verge is a vox media network Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2023 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
