Vox homepage Give Give Newsletters Newsletters Site search Search Vox main menu Explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters More Explainers Israel-Hamas war 2024 election Supreme Court Buy less stuff Open enrollment What to watch All explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters We have a request Vox's journalism is free, because we believe that everyone deserves to understand the world they live in. Reader support helps us do that. Can you chip in to help keep Vox free for all? × Google Is the green texting bubble about to burst? By Sara Morrison November 17 The secrets Google spilled in court By Sara Morrison November 16 Google is the default search engine. The big antitrust trial finally revealed how much that costs the company.
By Sara Morrison October 30 Your AI personal assistant is almost here — assuming you actually want it By Sara Morrison September 23 Google’s free AI isn’t just for search anymore By Sara Morrison September 19 Google is facing yet another major antitrust lawsuit By Sara Morrison September 6 Is the AI boom already over? By Sara Morrison August 28 Is YouTube tracking your kids again? By Sara Morrison August 25 Meta is now blocking news in Canada By Sara Morrison August 1 Filed under: The rise of artificial intelligence, explained How “windfall profits” from AI companies could fund a universal basic income By Dylan Matthews July 28 Filed under: The rise of artificial intelligence, explained The tricky truth about how generative AI uses your data By Sara Morrison July 27 Filed under: The rise of artificial intelligence, explained Biden sure seems serious about not letting AI get out of control By Sara Morrison July 21 Tax prep companies let Google and Facebook sell ads off your data By Sara Morrison July 12 Filed under: The rise of artificial intelligence, explained The ad industry is going all-in on AI By Shirin Ghaffary June 29 The hottest new perk in tech is freedom By Rani Molla June 20 Filed under: The rise of artificial intelligence, explained What will stop AI from flooding the internet with fake images? By Shirin Ghaffary June 3 Filed under: The rise of artificial intelligence, explained Why Google is reinventing the internet search By Sara Morrison May 11 Google is putting AI in basically everything, including search By Shirin Ghaffary May 10 Google’s new AI chatbot seems boring. Maybe that’s the point.
By Shirin Ghaffary March 22 Will using AI make Microsoft Word better? We’re going to find out.
By Shirin Ghaffary and Rani Molla March 16 Video Something weird happens when you keep squeezing Under extreme pressures, matter defies the rules of physics as we know it.
Play video for Something weird happens when you keep squeezing Why everyone hates this concrete building And why brutalism dominates US college campuses.
Play video for Why everyone hates this concrete building Sign up for the Vox video newsletter Don’t miss our new video projects, returning series, and opportunities to get involved with our reporting.
vox-mark Sign up for the newsletter Sentences The day's most important news stories, explained in your inbox.
Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required) Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
Explainers The controversy over TikTok and Osama bin Laden’s “Letter to America,” explained Why bin Laden’s 2002 letter became the latest TikTok moral panic.
Silicon Valley’s AI frenzy isn’t just another crypto craze By Shirin Ghaffary March 6 YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki is stepping down By Peter Kafka February 16 This stream has: 21 Updates Silicon Valley’s vibe shift By Vox Staff February 9 Google is scrambling to catch up to Bing, of all things By Sara Morrison February 8 Here comes Bard, Google’s version of ChatGPT By Shirin Ghaffary February 6 The AI boom is here, and so are the lawsuits By Peter Kafka February 2 Where will all the laid-off tech workers go? By Rani Molla January 31 Your favorite tech giant wants you to know it’s a startup again By Rani Molla and Shirin Ghaffary January 30 Microsoft is beating Google at its own game By Sara Morrison January 26 Google’s bad year is getting worse By Sara Morrison January 24 Big Tech’s Big Flops of 2022 By Sara Morrison December 27, 2022 Holiday scam email season is here. Don’t fall for it.
By Sara Morrison November 25, 2022 Elizabeth Warren wants to keep Big Tech from taking over your car By Sara Morrison November 3, 2022 The Big Tech boom is over and Wall Street knows it By Peter Kafka October 29, 2022 The mysterious ad slump of 2022 By Peter Kafka September 28, 2022 “The party is over”: How Meta and Google are using recession fears to clean house By Shirin Ghaffary September 22, 2022 Google CEO Sundar Pichai swears his company has real competition By Shirin Ghaffary September 6, 2022 How Facebook helped Axios sell for $500 million By Peter Kafka August 9, 2022 Google’s plan to get rid of cookies (still) isn’t going well By Sara Morrison July 27, 2022 Apple and Google are coming for your car By Sara Morrison June 14, 2022 Podcasts Helping you understand the most important news in the world, five days a week Go right up to the edge of what we know … and then keep going Embrace uncertainty vox-mark Sign up for the newsletter VoxCare Dylan Scott guides you through the fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic and the health care policies that matter most.
Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required) Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
Pagination Page 1 of 15 Chorus Facebook Twitter YouTube About us Our staff Privacy policy Ethics & Guidelines How we make money Contact us How to pitch Vox Contact Send Us a Tip Vox Media Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media
