Account overview Billing Profile Emails & marketing Data privacy Settings Help Comments & replies Sign out switch to the US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition current edition: The Guardian - Back to home News US news World news Environment US politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL F1 Golf Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money What term do you want to search? Search with google Support us Print subscriptions US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Human biology 3 out of 5 stars.
Blank review – author held hostage by AI as near-future thriller enters Misery territory 3 out of 5 stars.
There’s some inspired direction as Misery meets Ex Machina in this sci-fi psychological thriller Published: 30 Oct 2023 Blank review – author held hostage by AI as near-future thriller enters Misery territory How to have healthy skin The truth about wrinkles: what are they – and what do they really say about our skin? Published: 3 Oct 2023 The truth about wrinkles: what are they – and what do they really say about our skin? How to have healthy skin Let it shine: the unexpected benefits of sun exposure on skin Published: 1 Oct 2023 Let it shine: the unexpected benefits of sun exposure on skin How to have healthy skin The science of skin: everything you need to know about your body’s biggest organ – and how to protect it Published: 30 Sep 2023 The science of skin: everything you need to know about your body’s biggest organ – and how to protect it Dazzling microscopic worlds revealed in Nikon Small World in Motion competition – video Published: 28 Sep 2023 Dazzling microscopic worlds revealed in Nikon Small World in Motion competition – video The Creator review – vast and exhilarating sci-fi actioner rages against the AI machine 4 out of 5 stars.
Published: 26 Sep 2023 The Creator review – vast and exhilarating sci-fi actioner rages against the AI machine The vaginal microbiome: how to look after it – and what to avoid Published: 11 Sep 2023 The vaginal microbiome: how to look after it – and what to avoid How gluttonous civic officials made room for dessert Letter: Linda Geddes’ article on the body’s vagus nerve reminded Prof Jack Price of a strange – but inadvisable – tactic to exploit it Published: 25 Aug 2023 Published: 25 Aug 2023 How gluttonous civic officials made room for dessert Our secret superpower! 16 amazing facts about sweat, from armpit transplants to artificial BO Published: 22 Aug 2023 Our secret superpower! 16 amazing facts about sweat, from armpit transplants to artificial BO Want to weigh your hands? Here’s how to do it Published: 20 Aug 2023 Published: 20 Aug 2023 Want to weigh your hands? Here’s how to do it Never underestimate a droid: robots gather at AI for Good summit in Geneva Ai-da, Desdemona, Nadine and Geminoid join world’s largest gathering of humanoids to promote AI as force for good Published: 6 Jul 2023 Never underestimate a droid: robots gather at AI for Good summit in Geneva Science Weekly Why inflammation matters, and what we can do to fight it – podcast Ian Sample talks to Dr David Furman, an expert on inflammation and ageing at Stanford University. He explains how chronic inflammation is affecting our health and how lifestyle choices can help us fight it Podcast Published: 6 Jul 2023 Why inflammation matters, and what we can do to fight it – podcast Notes and queries Readers reply: how different are modern humans from the first Homo sapiens? The long-running series in which readers answer other readers’ questions on subjects ranging from trivial flights of fancy to profound scientific and philosophical concepts Published: 2 Jul 2023 Readers reply: how different are modern humans from the first Homo sapiens? Weekend Weekend podcast: actor Simon Pegg, Marina Hyde on the benevolent Lord Lebedev, and the truth about inflammation Simon Pegg on joining the A-list elite and embracing home life in Blighty; Marina Hyde implores us to ignore Lord Lebedev’s links to the KGB and just focus on his successes; and writer Joel Snape reveals all you need to know about 2023’s hottest health topic: inflammation Podcast Published: 1 Jul 2023 Weekend podcast: actor Simon Pegg, Marina Hyde on the benevolent Lord Lebedev, and the truth about inflammation Ranked The best films about AI – ranked! Will artificial intelligence destroy humanity? That remains to be seen. For now, gen up on the dangers and delights with this selection of movies Published: 29 Jun 2023 The best films about AI – ranked! The truth about inflammation: all you need to know about 2023’s hottest health topic, from causes to cures Published: 27 Jun 2023 The truth about inflammation: all you need to know about 2023’s hottest health topic, from causes to cures 3 out of 5 stars.
Sight Extended review – unsettling tale is an eye-opener in our age of AI anxiety 3 out of 5 stars.
Published: 7 Jun 2023 Sight Extended review – unsettling tale is an eye-opener in our age of AI anxiety Week in geek Is The Creator the first (or last) in a new wave of sci-fi movies about AI? The trailer for Gareth Edwards’ new film shows humanity being outsmarted by AI – and is released just as our overlords-to-be are rearing their terrifying heads Published: 19 May 2023 Is The Creator the first (or last) in a new wave of sci-fi movies about AI? How to have a healthy sex life Full speed ahead: why do some of us struggle with low libido – and five ways to help For most of us, the key to boosting sexual interest is to find what works your accelerator and what slams on the brakes. Could a new hormone treatment play a part in improving sex lives? Plus debunking the most common low libido myths Published: 24 Apr 2023 Full speed ahead: why do some of us struggle with low libido – and five ways to help How to have a healthy sex life Share a bath, play the three-minute game and don’t catastrophise! How to have better sex From the first to time through to the menopause, expert advice on how to improve your sex life – no matter your age, experience or desire Published: 22 Apr 2023 Share a bath, play the three-minute game and don’t catastrophise! How to have better sex About 576 results for Human biology 1 … next Topics Health Psychology Computing Health & wellbeing Neuroscience US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top Close
