Account overview Billing Profile Emails & marketing Data privacy Settings Help Comments & replies Sign out switch to the US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition current edition: The Guardian - Back to home News US news World news Environment US politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL F1 Golf Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money What term do you want to search? Search with google Support us Print subscriptions US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Synthetic biology The Coming Wave by Mustafa Suleyman review – AI, synthetic biology and a new dawn for humanity The DeepMind co-founder calls for the ‘containment’ of new technology in a heartfelt and candid exploration of what the future may hold for us Published: 28 Aug 2023 The Coming Wave by Mustafa Suleyman review – AI, synthetic biology and a new dawn for humanity MI6 needs tech sector’s help to win AI race with China and Russia – spy chief New boss Richard Moore to say adversaries are ‘pouring money’ into technology and the agency needs outside funding to keep up Published: 29 Nov 2021 MI6 needs tech sector’s help to win AI race with China and Russia – spy chief What if Covid-19 isn't our biggest threat? Experts who assess global peril saw a pandemic coming, but they have worse worries for humanity Published: 26 Apr 2020 What if Covid-19 isn't our biggest threat? World’s first living organism with fully redesigned DNA created Researchers create altered synthetic genome, in move with potential medical benefits Published: 15 May 2019 World’s first living organism with fully redesigned DNA created Fake chews? New Zealand MP fears 'existential threat' of synthetic burgers The Impossible Burger, being served on Air New Zealand, has also drawn the ire of acting prime minister Winston Peters Published: 4 Jul 2018 Fake chews? New Zealand MP fears 'existential threat' of synthetic burgers Synthetic biology raises risk of new bioweapons, US report warns Swift progress in our ability to manufacture viruses is making us vulnerable to biological attacks Published: 19 Jun 2018 Synthetic biology raises risk of new bioweapons, US report warns Unpalatable truths about laboratory-grown food Letters: Synthetic meat and fish can’t, on their own, provide an answer to climate change, argues Iain Climie , while David Ridge envisages technical problems in taking the technology out of the lab, and onto people’s plates Published: 24 Sep 2017 Published: 24 Sep 2017 Unpalatable truths about laboratory-grown food ‘Your animal life is over. Machine life has begun.’ The road to immortality In California, radical scientists and billionaire backers think the technology to extend life – by uploading minds to exist separately from the body – is only a few years away Published: 25 Mar 2017 ‘Your animal life is over. Machine life has begun.’ The road to immortality Political science The National Academies’ Gene Drive study has ignored important and obvious issues Jim Thomas Jim Thomas : ‘Gene drives’ seem to be the ultimate high-leverage technology. Yesterday’s report from the US National Academies begun the job of describing what is at stake, but it missed some important questions.
Published: 9 Jun 2016 Published: 9 Jun 2016 The National Academies’ Gene Drive study has ignored important and obvious issues Political science The secretive 'second world' of human synthetic biology Andrew Balmer A meeting on synthesising the human genome, convened behind closed doors at Harvard, has caused a stir. Should we worry about scientific secrecy? Published: 18 May 2016 Published: 18 May 2016 The secretive 'second world' of human synthetic biology Richard Dawkins interview: 'It must be possible to construct life chemically, or in a computer' Richard Dawkins has always been a figure of controversy. Part two of his autobiography, now out, picks up from the publication of The Selfish Gene. A combative presence on Twitter, he is a surprisingly much quieter personality behind the scenes, writes Carole Cadwalladr Published: 11 Sep 2015 Richard Dawkins interview: 'It must be possible to construct life chemically, or in a computer' Yeast cells genetically modified to create morphine-like painkiller Researchers say new biological manufacturing method using modified yeast instead of opium poppies could slash both manufacturing time and cost Published: 13 Aug 2015 Yeast cells genetically modified to create morphine-like painkiller The material world How laboratory-grown organs will transform our lives With people living longer than ever, being able to replace bits of the human body as they wear out has become a new frontier in medicine Published: 8 Jul 2015 How laboratory-grown organs will transform our lives Sustainable food Creators defend vanilla flavour made using synthetic biology Published: 28 May 2015 Creators defend vanilla flavour made using synthetic biology Rethinking prosperity Can biotech provide the magic formula for the green economy? Published: 5 May 2015 Can biotech provide the magic formula for the green economy? Political science UK Synthetic Biology Centres tasked with addressing public concerns An extra £40m for synthetic biology research in the UK comes with support to encourage responsible innovation. Social media analysis offers a heads up on new research ideas and potential public concerns Published: 30 Jan 2015 UK Synthetic Biology Centres tasked with addressing public concerns Science Weekly What are the risks of DIY synthetic biology? – Science Weekly podcast Are safety measures adequate in the burgeoning field of synthetic biology – which involves the creation of novel biological systems – in particular among amateur enthusiasts? Podcast Published: 12 Jan 2015 What are the risks of DIY synthetic biology? – Science Weekly podcast How tech could spell the end of animals in drugs testing We are in a pharmaceutical ice age. But new computer modelling and bioengineering techniques could revitalise the industry, reports Mark Piesing Published: 23 Aug 2014 How tech could spell the end of animals in drugs testing Political science What-Syn-a-Name? Synthetic biology is attracting attention from both scientists and regulators. But there is little agreement on what it is. Can we find a road out of synthetic biology’s definitional quagmire? Published: 8 Jul 2014 What-Syn-a-Name? Science Weekly Science Weekly podcast: the synthetic biology revolution Alok Jha meets scientists and artists working at the cutting edge of the rapidly growing field of synthetic biology, which aims to reshape the very fabric of life Podcast Published: 19 May 2014 Science Weekly podcast: the synthetic biology revolution About 74 results for Synthetic biology 1 Topics Biology Genetics Health Food Artificial intelligence (AI) US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top Close
