Account overview Billing Profile Emails & marketing Data privacy Settings Help Comments & replies Sign out switch to the US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition current edition: The Guardian - Back to home News US news World news Environment US politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL F1 Golf Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money What term do you want to search? Search with google Support us Print subscriptions US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness The Charles Arthur column WeChat: want an app that lets you do everything at once? China may be showing the way forward with its innovative messaging service Published: 2:00 AM Published: 2:00 AM WeChat: want an app that lets you do everything at once? Can you do ‘real work’ on an iPad? It’s time to stop the snobbishness about how superior a ‘proper computer’ is Published: 2:30 AM Published: 2:30 AM Can you do ‘real work’ on an iPad? The selfie was created pretty much by accident… and that’s how the next big thing could appear Phone companies have thrown themselves into finding another elusive must-have quality for the front-facing camera – but a teenager could beat them to it Published: 2:29 AM Published: 2:29 AM The selfie was created pretty much by accident… and that’s how the next big thing could appear BT hasn’t put the money into broadband because it hasn’t been forced to Lack of competition leaves rural Britain beyond the reach of fibre-optic delivery Published: 2:29 AM Published: 2:29 AM BT hasn’t put the money into broadband because it hasn’t been forced to User interfaces: why are microwave ovens all so difficult to use? The first ‘science oven’, launched in 1967, was simple to use but then digital interfaces came along and made things worse. The real problem, however, is that microwave ovens live too long Published: 2:00 AM Published: 2:00 AM User interfaces: why are microwave ovens all so difficult to use? Artificial intelligence: don’t fear AI. It’s already on your phone – and useful Machine learning and machine intelligence is already incorporated in apps such as Google Photos, Google Now and Apple Maps, and it can make your life easier Published: 2:30 AM Published: 2:30 AM Artificial intelligence: don’t fear AI. It’s already on your phone – and useful You buy the TV, Google ‘upgrades’ its software and then YouTube doesn’t work … Google has upgraded its software meaning that many people can no longer watch YouTube on their ‘smart TV’ and set-top box. What can you do? Published: 2:29 AM Published: 2:29 AM You buy the TV, Google ‘upgrades’ its software and then YouTube doesn’t work … Camera-makers focus on adapting to smartphones’ market surge The rise of smartphones has hit sales of top of the range cameras, but Sony is looking at the bigger picture Published: 2:30 AM Published: 2:30 AM Camera-makers focus on adapting to smartphones’ market surge After its Superfish was caught, Lenovo might actually get bigger Charles Arthur: The global PC giant had to eat humble pie over third-party apps, but could end up a winner Published: 3:29 AM Published: 3:29 AM After its Superfish was caught, Lenovo might actually get bigger Internet of things: Connect your TV, home, even your body, to the internet. But beware hackers Charles Arthur: In the not-too-distance future, doctors may monitor your heart over the internet. To avoid the dangers of such amazing advances, we need to start taking security more seriously Published: 2:30 AM Published: 2:30 AM Internet of things: Connect your TV, home, even your body, to the internet. But beware hackers Phone interfaces in cars? Drivers don’t need more distractions Charles Arthur: Google Android Auto and Apple CarPlay both connect mobile phones to in-car touchscreens, but using apps while driving brings risks Published: 7:00 AM Published: 7:00 AM Phone interfaces in cars? Drivers don’t need more distractions Do we really need all those endless updates to iTunes? Leave a product alone for a year and people – even those who love it – assume it’s been forgotten, writes Charles Arthur Published: 5:30 AM Published: 5:30 AM Do we really need all those endless updates to iTunes? Microsoft has its head in the cloud over ugly wearable tech The Microsoft Band’s functions aren’t enough if it makes you feel like you’re under house arrest, writes Charles Arthur Published: 5:30 AM Published: 5:30 AM Microsoft has its head in the cloud over ugly wearable tech Google Glass v Apple Watch: in form against function, Apple edges it over Google Charles Arthur : Google feature-led product is hard to love, the opposite of Apple’s understated design Published: 5:30 AM Published: 5:30 AM Google Glass v Apple Watch: in form against function, Apple edges it over Google How to take this strange protest over Apple’s giveaway of the U2 album Complaining about a free download seems perverse. Maybe the music industry has found a new business model Published: 5:30 AM Published: 5:30 AM How to take this strange protest over Apple’s giveaway of the U2 album iOS 8: will Apple's new Message leave users confused? Charles Arthur | Apple is tweaking its message app – and risks being left with wreckage Published: 5:30 AM Published: 5:30 AM iOS 8: will Apple's new Message leave users confused? Amazon: just another greedy retailer Charles Arthur: Amazon faces criticism for how it treats competitors and suppliers. Its behaviour is no surprise, and thanks to the internet we can keep it under scrutiny Published: 3:30 AM Published: 3:30 AM Amazon: just another greedy retailer Facebook Nearby Friends: a first step in making tech more human Blurring our location in tracking apps shows developers are finally recognising that we want our computers to think like us, writes Charles Arthur Published: 3:00 AM Published: 3:00 AM Facebook Nearby Friends: a first step in making tech more human Pono: only a man pays for music quality that he can't hear Neil Young's 192kHz 24-bit music player produces sound quality that is wasted on human hearing. So why pay the extra for it, asks Charles Arthur Published: 3:00 AM Published: 3:00 AM Pono: only a man pays for music quality that he can't hear Classic technologist thinking: get my smartphone to bug me even more Charles Arthur: Isn't it time developers stopped trying to find problems to fit the solution and treating people like lab rats? Published: 4:00 AM Published: 4:00 AM Classic technologist thinking: get my smartphone to bug me even more About 26 results for The Charles Arthur column 1 Topics Apple Computing Internet Google Smartphones US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top Close
