Account overview Billing Profile Emails & marketing Data privacy Settings Help Comments & replies Sign out switch to the US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition current edition: The Guardian - Back to home News US news World news Environment US politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL F1 Golf Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money What term do you want to search? Search with google Support us Print subscriptions US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness The metaverse Who needs the Metaverse? Meet the people still living on Second Life Mark Zuckerberg’s grand vision for an online existence has been laughed off as a corporate folly. Meanwhile, those still existing happily on a virtual world launched 20 years ago may be wondering what all the fuss is about … Published: 10 Jun 2023 Who needs the Metaverse? Meet the people still living on Second Life Mark Zuckerberg’s metaverse vision is over. Can Apple save it? The CEO of the social media giant has spent billions – and still no one understands the idea. But now the world’s richest firm could change the game Published: 21 May 2023 Mark Zuckerberg’s metaverse vision is over. Can Apple save it? The networker A moment’s silence, please, for the death of Mark Zuckerberg’s metaverse John Naughton Published: 13 May 2023 Published: 13 May 2023 A moment’s silence, please, for the death of Mark Zuckerberg’s metaverse It’s a tough time for Meta. Can AI help make the company relevant again? Published: 11 May 2023 It’s a tough time for Meta. Can AI help make the company relevant again? Meta reports surprisingly strong quarter one earnings after restructuring hiccups The company posted $28.10bn in revenue and appears to be shifting focus away from the metaverse to artificial intelligence Published: 26 Apr 2023 Meta reports surprisingly strong quarter one earnings after restructuring hiccups Frazzled Englishwoman, goblin mode, butter boards, cabbage circles – can you spot the odd one out? Arwa Mahdawi Published: 13 Dec 2022 Published: 13 Dec 2022 Frazzled Englishwoman, goblin mode, butter boards, cabbage circles – can you spot the odd one out? ‘The metaverse will be our slow death!’ Is Facebook losing its $100bn gamble on virtual reality? Published: 7 Dec 2022 ‘The metaverse will be our slow death!’ Is Facebook losing its $100bn gamble on virtual reality? The metaverse will be a digital graveyard if we let new technologies distract us from today’s problems Jordan Guiao The collapse of digital ventures like FTX shows that no amount of hype and starry-eyed proselytising can escape reality Published: 20 Nov 2022 Published: 20 Nov 2022 The metaverse will be a digital graveyard if we let new technologies distract us from today’s problems The Guardian view on big tech: pop! goes the bubble Published: 10 Nov 2022 The Guardian view on big tech: pop! goes the bubble Nils Pratley on finance Mark Zuckerberg’s metaverse is a joke not shared by investors Published: 2 Nov 2022 Published: 2 Nov 2022 Mark Zuckerberg’s metaverse is a joke not shared by investors Meta shares dip is proof metaverse plan never really had legs Virtual reality gamble is not paying off as Mark Zuckerberg appears to be going out on a limb with avatars Published: 27 Oct 2022 Meta shares dip is proof metaverse plan never really had legs Turkey: new ‘disinformation’ law could jail journalists for three years Press freedom organisations warn bill will ‘subdue public debate’ in run-up to next year’s general elections Published: 13 Oct 2022 Turkey: new ‘disinformation’ law could jail journalists for three years Could a digital twin of Tuvalu preserve the island nation before it’s lost to the collapsing climate? With rising seas expected to submerge the nation by 2100, official says ‘we should always be able to remember Tuvalu as it is, before it disappears’ Published: 29 Sep 2022 Could a digital twin of Tuvalu preserve the island nation before it’s lost to the collapsing climate? Exit the internet, enter the metaverse – your online future is in 3D Venture capitalist Matthew Ball’s new book explores the three-dimensional virtual world that is set to supersede the net. What might this alternative digital reality have in store for users? Published: 10 Jul 2022 Exit the internet, enter the metaverse – your online future is in 3D ‘Portals will be as important as the car’: the architects exploring gateways to new dimensions Published: 8 Jul 2022 ‘Portals will be as important as the car’: the architects exploring gateways to new dimensions ‘Frankly it blew my mind’: how Tron changed cinema – and predicted the future of tech Published: 5 Jul 2022 ‘Frankly it blew my mind’: how Tron changed cinema – and predicted the future of tech TechScape TechScape: why you shouldn’t worry about sentient AI … yet A researcher says Google has created an AI being with smarts and soul, but my own attempt reveals the truth behind those claims. Plus, the latest crypto crash Published: 15 Jun 2022 TechScape: why you shouldn’t worry about sentient AI … yet Labelling Google’s LaMDA chatbot as sentient is fanciful. But it’s very human to be taken in by machines Toby Walsh Published: 14 Jun 2022 Published: 14 Jun 2022 Labelling Google’s LaMDA chatbot as sentient is fanciful. But it’s very human to be taken in by machines ‘End of an era’: Sheryl Sandberg leaves behind powerful – if complicated – legacy Published: 2 Jun 2022 ‘End of an era’: Sheryl Sandberg leaves behind powerful – if complicated – legacy Pass notes Tamagotchi kids: could the future of parenthood be having virtual children in the metaverse? According to an expert on artificial intelligence, would-be parents will soon be able to opt for cheap and cuddle-able digital offspring Published: 31 May 2022 Tamagotchi kids: could the future of parenthood be having virtual children in the metaverse? About 21 results for The metaverse 1 Topics Mark Zuckerberg Meta Facebook Artificial intelligence (AI) Computing US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top Close
