Sign in My Account Subscribe Quick Links Dear Therapist Crossword Puzzle Manage Subscription Popular Latest Sections Politics Ideas Photo Science Culture Podcasts Health Education Planet Technology Family Projects America In Person Global Events Books Fiction Newsletter The Atlantic Crossword Play Crossword The Print Edition Latest Issue Past Issues Give a Gift Search The Atlantic Quick Links Dear Therapist Crossword Puzzle Manage Subscription Popular Latest Sign In My Account Subscribe Artificial Intelligence Haiyun Jiang / The New York Times / … The Sudden Fall of Sam Altman What it means that the world’s most powerful AI executive is out of a job Ross Andersen November 17, 2023 Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: pabradyphoto / Getty.
The White House Is Preparing for an AI-Dominated Future President Biden’s big swing on AI is as impressive and confusing as the technology itself.
Karen Hao and Matteo Wong October 30, 2023 Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Bing Image Creator. … AI Has a Hotness Problem In the world of generated imagery, you’re either drop-dead gorgeous or a wrinkled, bug-eyed freak.
Caroline Mimbs Nyce October 24, 2023 Jordan Speer for The Atlantic Computers Are Learning to Smell AI could revolutionize our understanding of one of the most mysterious human senses.
Matteo Wong October 13, 2023 Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
The New AI Panic Washington and Beijing have been locked in a conflict over AI development. Now a new battle line is being drawn.
Karen Hao October 11, 2023 Illustration by Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic. Source: … AI’s Present Matters More Than Its Imagined Future Let’s not spend too much time daydreaming.
Inioluwa Deborah Raji October 4, 2023 Illustration by Jared Bartman / The Atlantic. Source: … Artists Are Losing the War Against AI OpenAI has introduced a tool for artists to keep their images from training future AI programs. It may not make a difference.
Matteo Wong October 2, 2023 Illustration by Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic My Books Were Used to Train Meta’s Generative AI. Good.
It can have my next one too.
Ian Bogost September 27, 2023 Illustration by Paul Spella / The Atlantic. Source: … A New Coca-Cola Flavor at the End of the World Y3000, the latest Coke flavor, was purportedly made with the assistance of AI. What does it taste like? Kaitlyn Tiffany September 26, 2023 Illustration by Ben Kothe / The Atlantic So Much for ‘Learn to Code’ In the age of AI, computer science is no longer the safe major.
Kelli María Korducki September 26, 2023 Video by The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
What I Found in a Database Meta Uses to Train Generative AI Nobel-winning authors, Dungeons and Dragons , Christian literature, and erotica all serve as datapoints for the machine.
Alex Reisner September 25, 2023 Illustration by Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic. Source: … These 183,000 Books Are Fueling the Biggest Fight in Publishing and Tech Use our new search tool to see which authors have been used to train the machines.
Alex Reisner September 25, 2023 Illustration by Jared Bartman / The Atlantic. Source: … Why Go With an Evil-Looking Orb? The controversial crypto project Worldcoin asks people to look into a shiny orb to have their irises scanned. It’s a bit on the nose.
Kaitlyn Tiffany September 8, 2023 Illustration by Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic Robots Are Already Killing People The AI boom only underscores a problem that has existed for years.
Bruce Schneier and Davi Ottenheimer September 6, 2023 H. Armstrong Roberts / ClassicStock / Getty High-School English Needed a Makeover Before ChatGPT I used to make my students write essay after essay. There was always a better way.
Daniel Herman August 30, 2023 Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
It’s a Weird Time for Driverless Cars The robotaxis now hitting American streets are troubling and amazing all at once.
Caroline Mimbs Nyce August 29, 2023 Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
The Internet’s Next Great Power Suck AI’s carbon emissions are about to be a problem.
Matteo Wong August 23, 2023 Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
Revealed: The Authors Whose Pirated Books Are Powering Generative AI Stephen King, Zadie Smith, and Michael Pollan are among thousands of writers whose copyrighted works are being used to train large language models.
Alex Reisner August 19, 2023 Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic Before a Bot Steals Your Job, It Will Steal Your Name The future of AI looks a lot like Tessa, Ernie, and Amy.
Jacob Sweet August 11, 2023 Illustration by Ben Kothe / The Atlantic. Source: … Can an AI Save a Life? Michael spent years fighting isolation, depression, and despair. Then he met Sam. Then Sam changed.
Ethan Brooks and Hanna Rosin August 10, 2023 More Stories About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Podcasts The Experiment Floodlines How to Build a Happy Life The Review Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Download iOS App Newsletters Follow Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Advertising Guidelines Terms Conditions Responsible Disclosure Site Map TheAtlantic.com Copyright (c) 2023 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.
