Toggle Navigation News Events TNW Conference 2024 June 20 & 21, 2024 TNW Vision: 2024 All events Spaces Programs Newsletters Partner with us Jobs Contact News news news news Latest Deep tech Sustainability Ecosystems Data and security Fintech and ecommerce Future of work More Startups and technology Investors and funding Government and policy Corporates and innovation Gadgets & apps Early bird Business passes are 90% SOLD OUT 🎟️ Buy now before they are gone → This article was published on October 11, 2023 Deep tech Google’s AI could soon consume as much electricity as Ireland, study finds The servers on which AI models run need a sh*t tonne of juice Amid the debate over the dangers of widespread AI development, an important concern may have been overlooked: the huge amount of energy required to train these large language models.
A new study published this week suggests that the AI industry could consume as much energy as a country like Argentina, Netherlands, or Sweden by 2027.
What’s more, the research estimates that if Google alone switched its whole search business to AI, it would end up using 29.3 terawatt-hours per year — equivalent to the electricity consumption of Ireland.
The paper was published by Alex de Vries at the VU Amsterdam School of Business and Economics.
In 2021, Google’s total electricity consumption was 18.3 TWh, with AI accounting for 10%–15% of it. However, the tech giant is rapidly scaling the AI parts of its business, most notably with the launch of its Bard chatbot, but also the integration of AI into its search engine.
Get your ticket NOW for TNW Conference - Super Earlybird is 90% sold out! Unleash innovation, connect with thousands of tech lovers and shape the future on June 20-21, 2024.
However, the scenario stipulated by the study assumes full-scale AI adoption utilising current hardware and software, which is unlikely to happen rapidly, said de Vries. One of the main hurdles to such widespread adoption is the limited supply of graphics processing units (GPUs) powerful enough to process all that data.
While entirely hypothetical, the study casts light on an often unstated impact of scaling up AI technologies. Data centres already use between 1-1.3% of all the world’s electricity and adding AI to existing applications like search engines could rapidly increase the share.
“It would be advisable for developers not only to focus on optimising AI, but also to critically consider the necessity of using AI in the first place, as it is unlikely that all applications will benefit from AI or that the benefits will always outweigh the costs,” advised de Vries.
Story by Siôn Geschwindt Siôn is a reporter at TNW. From startups to tech giants, he covers the length and breadth of the European tech ecosystem. With a background (show all) Siôn is a reporter at TNW. From startups to tech giants, he covers the length and breadth of the European tech ecosystem. With a background in environmental science, Siôn has a bias for solutions delivering environmental and social impact at scale.
Get the TNW newsletter Get the most important tech news in your inbox each week.
Also tagged with Google Artificial intelligence Google Chrome Story by Siôn Geschwindt Popular articles 1 New erotic roleplaying chatbots promise to indulge your sexual fantasies 2 UK plan to lead in generative AI ‘unrealistic,’ say Cambridge researchers 3 New AI tool could make future vaccines ‘variant-proof,’ researchers say 4 3D-printed stem cells could help treat brain injuries 5 New technique makes AI hallucinations wake up and face reality Related Articles data security Netherlands building own version of ChatGPT amid quest for safer AI deep tech It’s ‘insane’ to let TikTok operate in Europe, NYU professor warns Join TNW All Access Watch videos of our inspiring talks for free → deep tech Social media has new moderation problems. This AI startup has a solution fintech ecommerce Google to pay €3.2M yearly fee to German news publishers The heart of tech More TNW Media Events Programs Spaces Newsletters Jobs in tech About TNW Partner with us Jobs Terms & Conditions Cookie Statement Privacy Statement Editorial Policy Masthead Copyright © 2006—2023, The Next Web B.V. Made with <3 in Amsterdam.
