Toggle Navigation News Events TNW Conference 2024 June 20 & 21, 2024 TNW Vision: 2024 All events Spaces Programs Newsletters Partner with us Jobs Contact News news news news Latest Deep tech Sustainability Ecosystems Data and security Fintech and ecommerce Future of work More Startups and technology Investors and funding Government and policy Corporates and innovation Gadgets & apps Early bird Business passes are 90% SOLD OUT 🎟️ Buy now before they are gone → This article was published on May 30, 2023 Deep tech AI poses ‘risk of extinction,’ warn European tech luminaries The cautions keep on coming Some of Europe’s top technologists today joined a global group of IT luminaries in warning that AI could lead to extinction.
At just 22 words long, their statement is short and stark: “Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war.” Issued by the non-profit Center for AI Safety, the message has been signed by an array of business leaders, researchers, and public figures. They include Sam Altman, the CEO of OpenAI, Kevin Scott, the CTO of Microsoft, and, err, the musician Grimes. Her ex-boyfriend, Elon Musk, however, was a notable absentee, despite his long track record of raising concerns about the field.
Get your ticket NOW for TNW Conference - Super Earlybird is 90% sold out! Unleash innovation, connect with thousands of tech lovers and shape the future on June 20-21, 2024.
A sizeable proportion of the signatories come from Europe. Among them are Demis Hassabis, the London-born CEO of Google DeepMind, Kersti Kaljulaid, the former president of Estonia, and Geoffrey Hinton, a British Turing Award-winner who recently quit Google to talk about AI’s dangers.
The statement joins a bevvy of recent alarm bells about the existential threats posed by AI.
In the last two months alone, industry leaders have called for the training of powerful AI systems to be suspended amid fears of threats to humanity; healthcare professionals have demanded a pause on developing artificial general intelligence; Musk has warned AI could cause “civilisation destruction,” and Google boss Sundar Pichai has admitted that the dangers “keep [him] up at night.” Cynics, however, may note that many figures sounding the alarm are also resisting any AI regulations that could adversely impact their businesses.
Story by Thomas Macaulay Senior reporter Thomas is a senior reporter at TNW. He covers European tech, with a focus on deeptech, startups, and government policy.
Thomas is a senior reporter at TNW. He covers European tech, with a focus on deeptech, startups, and government policy.
Get the TNW newsletter Get the most important tech news in your inbox each week.
Also tagged with tech Artificial intelligence Europe Story by Thomas Macaulay Popular articles 1 New erotic roleplaying chatbots promise to indulge your sexual fantasies 2 UK plan to lead in generative AI ‘unrealistic,’ say Cambridge researchers 3 New AI tool could make future vaccines ‘variant-proof,’ researchers say 4 3D-printed stem cells could help treat brain injuries 5 New technique makes AI hallucinations wake up and face reality Related Articles ecosystems How Valencia’s fast-growing startup ecosystem is thriving sustainability Climate tech is set to boom. This VC explains why it’s ripe for investment Join TNW All Access Watch videos of our inspiring talks for free → deep tech From AI to fusion power: The next 10 startups in Intel’s European deep tech accelerator deep tech UK invests £225M to create one of world’s most powerful AI supercomputers The heart of tech More TNW Media Events Programs Spaces Newsletters Jobs in tech About TNW Partner with us Jobs Terms & Conditions Cookie Statement Privacy Statement Editorial Policy Masthead Copyright © 2006—2023, The Next Web B.V. Made with <3 in Amsterdam.
