Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Best USB-C Hub $35 at Amazon A Basic USB-A Hub $22 at Amazon Best for Tablets $60 at Amazon Best Hub if You Need External Storage $90 at Amazon Your laptop never has enough ports–especially if it's the Macbook Air this guide was written on. That forces you to carry an array of dongles so you can plug everything in. Fortunately, there's a better way. USB hubs can expand the number and kind of ports available, and USB docks let you turn a laptop into a full-blown workstation with one plug. After testing several USB hubs and docks, these are the best we've found for different needs.
Looking for other home-office gizmos and gadgets? We've got a number of guides that can help, like our Best Work-From-Home Gear , Best USB Flash Drive , and Best Portable External Storage Drives roundups.
Update November 2023: We added the Satechi Dual Dock Stand, Plugable Dual 4K Display Horizontal Docking Station, Plugable USB-C Triple Display Docking Station 13-in-1, Satechi Thunderbolt 4 Media Pro Dock, and OWC Thunderbolt Go Dock. We also added Honorable Mentions section with Plugable UD-3900C, Plugable USB-C Triple Display Docking Station, Satechi Triple 4K Display Docking Station, and Plugable Dual Monitor Horizontal Docking Station.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.
com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
There's a gray area between USB hubs and docks because they do (mostly) the same thing: add more ports and connectors to your computer. However, there are some slight differences, and it's worth understanding them before you buy one.
USB hubs are smaller, cheaper dongles that can add extra USB ports, SD card readers, display outputs, or a headphone jack. These often don't supply extra power, so you might be unable to charge gadgets plugged into them. They're also portable enough to throw in your laptop bag to use on the go.
USB docks are often larger and more expensive and are designed to spend most of their time on your desk. They often come with their own power supply, so they can charge other devices, and have multiple monitor outputs and Ethernet connections. If you frequently use your laptop at a desk, a dock can let you quickly connect it to a keyboard, mouse, monitors, and any other peripherals simultaneously.
Photograph: Anker Best USB-C Hub Anker 5-in-1 USB-C Hub This Anker USB hub is the one I carry in my camera bag everywhere. It plugs into the USB-C port on your laptop and provides two USB-A 3.0 ports, an HDMI output, and both a full-size and a MicroSD card reader. It's a versatile little thing that lets you plug in peripherals to your laptop, transfer data between your devices, and hook up your laptop to a projector or monitor at a moment's notice (provided you have an HDMI cable). Best of all, it's quite affordable.
Connects via USB-C $35 at Amazon Photograph: Amazon A Basic USB-A Hub AmazonBasics 4 Port USB Hub Don't have a USB-C port on your laptop? This AmazonBasics hub will do the trick, even if it's about as bare-bones as hubs can get. It plugs into one USB-A port and gives you four more, supporting up to USB 3.0 speeds. You can use the hub by itself to plug in peripherals or flash drives, but if you jack in the included power adapter, the hub can charge gadgets plugged into it.
Connects via USB-A $22 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Twelve South Best for Tablets Twelve South StayGo Mini The USB-C port on recent iPad models means you're often forced to choose between charging or plugging in an accessory. This hub from Twelve South can fix that without adding too much bulk. It plugs directly into the USB-C port on the bottom of the tablet and offers up a headphone jack (yay!), a USB-A port, an HDMI output, and an extra USB-C port. It also comes with a short USB-C extension cable—handy if you have a thick case over your iPad that obscures the port a bit.
Twelve South recommends it for iPads, but we've used it with MacBooks and other laptops with no issues. Check out our Best iPad Accessories guide for more.
Connects via USB-C $60 at Amazon $60 at Twelve South Photograph: Satechi Best Hub if You Need External Storage Satechi USB-C Hybrid Multiport Adapter Wouldn’t it be nice if the USB hub you carry around with you had some storage of its own? This one from Satechi can (sort of) do that. In addition to the extra USB ports and 4K HDMI output it provides, it's also an external M.2 solid state drive enclosure. Open the panel on the back and you can slot in an internal SSD card and access it whenever you plug the hub into your computer. It's an incredibly handy feature that, frankly, more USB hubs and docks should include.
Just know that the M.2 SATA SSD is not included. One-terabyte drives like this one from Western Digital or this one from Samsung will do the job. (They come in other storage sizes too.) Connects via USB-C $90 at Amazon $90 at Walmart Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Satechi Best Docking Station Satechi Dual Dock Stand It's tough for USB docks to stand out—most of them are simply boxes that add extra ports to your laptop—but Satechi managed to make one that really breaks the mold. This dock sits neatly under your laptop and elevates it a little ways off the desk, for a more ergonomic angle. On the rear, it adds an Ethernet port, five USB ports (two USB-A, two USB-C, and a third USB-C for charging), and three monitor outputs (two HDMI and one DisplayPort). A hardware switch on the back lets you turn the dock on or off, and a small strip of rubber on the top makes sure your laptop doesn't slide around on top.
Most interestingly, it also has an NVMe SSD slot in the bottom. While no SSD is included, you can plug in your own to give your dock its own storage to offload files from your laptop. The dock uses two USB-C plugs that run through a small plastic sleeve to line them up for some popular laptops like the Macbook Air, but you can pull the sleeve back to separate the plugs to fit other laptops. That said, you'll need both plugged in for the dock to work, and your two USB-C ports should probably be on the same side of the laptop, so make sure yours are before picking this one up.
With all these features, it would be a strong contender for one of our favorite docks already, but its low price really brings it over the finish line. The only downside is that it doesn't come with its own power supply like most of our other picks. However, the USB-C PD port on the rear supports up to 75-watt input, which it can pass onto your laptop. Many laptops come with their own USB-C charging cable anyway, and if you don't already have your own, you can check out our guide to find one here.
Connects via two USB-C ports $150 at Amazon $150 at Best Buy $150 at Satechi Photograph: Plugable Best Dual-Monitor Dock Plugable Dual 4K Display Horizontal Docking Station Sometimes, all you need is a quick and easy way to plug your laptop into a couple of monitors—preferably without spending hundreds of dollars for the privilege. This dock from Plugable is perfect for that goal. It supports two external monitors, up to 4K, with a choice between HDMI or DisplayPort for either one. This technically means it has four ports for monitors, but it can only use two at a time. Additionally, it has six USB 3.0 connectors (USB-A style) with four on the front and two on the rear, plus an Ethernet port on the back. It's one of the least expensive docking stations we've tested.
Connects via USB-C $150 at Amazon $150 at Plugable Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Plugable Best Triple-Monitor Dock Plugable Plugable Triple Display Docking Station 13-in-1 This dock from Plugable is a pretty substantial step up from our previous multi-monitor pick. It has three HDMI ports that can all be used simultaneously, plus four USB-A 3.0 ports and an Ethernet port on the rear. On the front, it has a headphone and microphone jack, a SD card reader, and a USB-C port that delivers up to 20 watts of power, more than enough to keep your phone charged throughout the day.
Connects via USB-C $195 at Amazon $200 at Plugable Photograph: Anker A More Robust Multi-Monitor Dock Anker 568 Thunderbolt Docking Station This dock is pricier than the multi-monitor dock above, so it's not the first one I'd recommend. However, it has a much higher 100-watt output via its USB 4.0 charging port, which is one of its three USB-C ports. That means it can charge high-power laptops under load. It also has two DisplayPorts and one HDMI port (as opposed to the three HDMI ports on the Plugable dock above). Anker's 568 dock has more power across the board, but it comes at a premium, so unless you're sure you need the extra beef, it's probably safer to go with something cheaper. But this dock is well-suited to a modern, high-power system and performs really well there.
Connects via USB-C $300 at Amazon $300 at Anker Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Satechi A Dock for Media Professionals Satechi Thunderbolt 4 Multimedia Pro Dock If you do any heavy video editing, game design, or other types of work that involve huge amounts of data, this dock has all the bells and whistles for you. On the front, it has a UHS-II SD card slot and micro SD card slot. On the rear, it has two HDMI 2.1 ports and two DisplayPort ports, supporting up to four separate 4K/60 Hz monitors simultaneously. An Ethernet port on the rear can connect your workstation to a local network with up to 2.5 Gbps speeds and, surprisingly, that might actually be a bottleneck for your setup. Three USB-A ports (two on the rear, one on the front) support the newer USB 3.2 spec, capable of up to 10 Gbps speeds. All the other devices in the chain will need to also support USB 3.2 to take advantage of those speeds, but if your goal is to put together a ludicrously high-speed workstation, few docks we've tested will help you more than this one.
Connects via USB-C $350 at Amazon $350 at Best Buy $350 at Satechi Photograph: Satechi A Luxury Dock for Beefy Workstations Satechi Thunderbolt 4 Dock This indulgent dock from Satechi comes with three Thunderbolt 4 connectors (as well as a fourth for plugging into your laptop), which means you can get some of the fastest data transfer speeds available today, provided your laptop or PC supports the Thunderbolt 4 standard too. You also get three USB-A 3.0 ports, gigabit Ethernet, a combo headphone/mic jack, and an SD card reader. It also comes with its own power supply, to help keep all the gadgets running when you plug them in. It's among the priciest docks I tested, but if you do a lot of heavy-duty tasks like transferring 4K video footage or hooking your laptop up to multiple 4K monitors, this is the dock that's going to serve your needs.
Connects via USB-C $300 at Amazon $300 at Best Buy Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: OWC For Portable Power OWC Thunderbolt Go Dock Most of the highest-end docks we test come with bulky, external power blocks they need in order to work. That's fine if your dock stays on your desk, but it's a pain if you ever want to bring your dock with you. This dock from OWC, however, has its power block built-in. It comes with a typical figure 8-style power cord, the same kind you might have laying around from a dozen different game consoles, speaker systems, and other larger electronics. The dock features an SD card slot, an HDMI port that supports up to an 8K display, an ethernet port, and three USB-A ports (one USB 2.0 on the front, two USB 3.0 on the back). An USB-C port on the front supports USB 3.2 for up to 10 Gbps transfer speeds, and two more USB-C ports on the rear can connect more devices, including another external display. Taken together, it's the kind of power we normally expect from a typical desktop dock, but it's substantially more portable.
Connects via USB-C $300 at Amazon $300 at OWC Photograph: Anker An Overly Indulgent Dock for Up to Four Monitors Anker 778 Thunderbolt Docking Station Do you have an 8K display? Or perhaps four different 4K monitors ? Is your workstation so robust it can reasonably be described as a control room ? If so, the Anker 778 might be the best fit for you. It supports up to 100-watt charging via a Thunderbolt 4 port, and it has one HDMI and two DisplayPort plugs that can each support up to 8K at 30 frames per second, plus another Thunderbolt 4 downstream port. With all these combined, you can add up to four 4K displays, which is nuts. That might explain the absurdly high price.
Connects via USB-C $380 at Amazon $284 at Anker Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Satechi Honorable Mentions Honorable Mention Docks We test a lot of USB hubs and docks and, quite frankly, most of them are … fine. They're fine! We get into the nitty-gritty for specific use-cases to find the best, but that leaves a bunch of devices that are great options, even if they don't make our top picks. Here's a selection of some of our favorites, past favorites, or just alternatives to our picks above.
Plugable UD-3900C Dual Monitor Docking Station for $120 : This was our top pick for a while, but it's looking a little long in the tooth. It has two HDMI ports for dual-monitor setups, but it doesn't come with its own power supply and it has fewer USB 3.0 ports than many of our other more modern picks. It is still fairly inexpensive, though, if you just need a cheap dock.
Plugable USB-C Triple Display Docking Station for $150 : This was previously our top pick for multi-monitor setups, and it's still a great, slightly less expensive option. This one lacks the SD card reader, extra charging port, or headphone and microphone jacks of our new pick, but it has a couple of extra USB 3.0 ports and supports up to three monitors.
Satechi Triple 4K Display Docking Station for $300 : This was a strong contender for our triple-monitor pick, but it's more expensive than the Plugable option and lacks some of its nicer features like an SD card slot. However, this one has more USB ports on the front (two USB-C, one USB-A), and while they don't charge quite as fast, two of them support 7.5-watt charging which can keep phones topped off.
Plugable USB 3.0 Dual Monitor Horizontal Docking Station for $78 : This is the cheapest docking station we've tested, and if you have the most barebones needs, it can be worth a look. It supports two monitors, although it has one HDMI and one DVI port to do so. The dock comes with both DVI-to-HDMI and DVI-to-VGA adapters, making this dock probably most useful for connecting the old gear sitting around the office conference room.
Product Writer and Reviewer X Topics USB Accessories and Peripherals Office Shopping buying guides Eric Ravenscraft Jaina Grey Simon Hill Julian Chokkattu Julian Chokkattu Adrienne So Brenda Stolyar Simon Hill WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
