A Journal of Law, Technology & Society https://script-ed.org?p=3173 SCRIPTed A Journal of Law, Technology & Society Menu About SCRIPTed Editorial Board Submission Guidelines Authors Artists Book Reviewers Blog posts Copyright policy Books for Review Issues Current Issue All issues Blog Contact us All issues > Volume 13 > Issue 13:3 (232-409) (2016) 13:3 SCRIPTed 232–409 Issue DOI: 10.2966/scrip.130316 Cover image Max Mitscherlich The City of Edinburgh inspired me to take this picture. Right after sunset I was standing on Calton hill and observed the pulsating city life. The diversity between old buildings, nature and modern technology is what fascinates me about this city.
Editorial Looking Back, Looking Forward Edward S. Dove and Catriona McMillan, pp. 232-234 Full text PDF Articles Decentralisation, Distrust & Fear of the Body – The Worrying Rise of Crypto-Law Alan Cunningham, pp. 235-257 Full text PDF The increasing collective use of distributed application software platforms, programming languages and crypto-currencies around the blockchain concept for general transactions may have radical implications for the way in which society conceptualises and applies trust and trust-based social systems such as law. By exploring one iteration of such generalised blockchain systems – Ethereum – and the historical lineage of such systems, it will be argued that indeed their ideological basis is largely one of distrust, decentralisation and, ultimately, via increasing disassociation of identity, a fear of the body itself. This ideological basis can be reframed as a crypto-legal approach to the problems of human interaction, one whereby the purely technological solutions outlined above are considered adequate for reconciling many of the problems of our collective existence. The article concludes, however, by re-iterating a perspective of law more so as an entirely embodied and trust dependent notion. These aspects go some way to explaining the necessarily centralised role it takes on within societies. They also explain why the crypto-legal approaches advanced by systems like Ethereum – or even the co-opting of blockchain technology by law firms themselves – will only ever be at best efficiency exercises concerned with the processing of data relating to legal affairs, and not the more radical, ambiguous and difficult process of actual legal thought or, indeed, engagement with trust.
Incident Response: Protecting Individual Rights Under the General Data Protection Regulation Andrew Cormack, pp. 258-282 Full text PDF Identifying and fixing problems with the security of computers and networks is essential to protect the data they contain and the privacy of their users. However, these incident response activities require additional processing of personal data, so may themselves create a privacy risk. Current laws have created diverse interpretations of this processing – from encouragement to prohibition – creating barriers to incident response and challenges for collaboration between incident responders. The EU’s new General Data Protection Regulation explicitly recognises the need for processing to protect the security of networks and information. It also, through rules on processing for “legitimate interests”, suggests a way to identify an appropriate balance between risks. Consistent use of these provisions could provide a common legal approach for incident response teams, enabling them to work more effectively. This article builds on analysis by the Article 29 Working Party to develop a framework for assessing the benefit and impact of incident response activities. This is applied to a range of practical detection, notification and information sharing techniques commonly used in incident response, showing how these do, indeed, protect, rather than threaten, the privacy and data protection rights of computer and network users.
Artificial Intelligence and Intellectual Property essay competition Editorial: The Future of IP Law in an Age of Artificial Intelligence Burkhard Schafer, pp. 283-288 Full text PDF Human Aspects of Digital Rights Management: the Perspective of Content Developers Marcella Favale, Neil McDonald, Shamal Faily, and Christos Gatzidis, pp. 289-304 Full text PDF Legal norms and social behaviours are some of the human aspects surrounding the effectiveness and future of DRM security. Further exploration of these aspects would help unravel the complexities of the interaction between rights protection security and law. Most importantly, understanding the perspectives behind the circumvention of content security may have a significant impact on DRM effectiveness and acceptance at the same time. While there has been valuable research on consumer acceptability, (The INDICARE project, Bohle 2008, Akester 2009) there is hardly any work on the human perspective of content creators. Taking video games as a case study, this paper employs qualitative socio-legal analysis and an interdisciplinary approach to explore this particular aspect of content protection.
Computers as Inventors – Legal and Policy Implications of Artificial Intelligence on Patent Law Erica Fraser, pp. 305-333 Full text PDF The nascent but increasing interest in incorporating Artificial Intelligence (AI) into tools for the computer-generation of inventions is expected to enable innovations that would otherwise be impossible through human ingenuity alone. The potential societal benefits of accelerating the pace of innovation through AI will force a re-examination of the basic tenets of intellectual property law. The patent system must adjust to ensure it continues to appropriately protect intellectual investment while encouraging the development of computer-generated inventing systems; however, this must be balanced against the risk that the quantity and qualities of computer-generated inventions will stretch the patent system to its breaking points, both conceptually and practically. The patent system must recognise the implications of and be prepared to respond to a technological reality where leaps of human ingenuity are supplanted by AI, and the ratio of human-to-machine contribution to inventive processes progressively shifts in favour of the machine. This article assesses the implications on patent law and policy of a spectrum of contemporary and conceptual AI invention-generation technologies, from the generation of textual descriptions of inventions, to human inventors employing AI-based tools in the invention process, to computers inventing autonomously without human intervention.
Artificial Invention: Mind the Machine! Shamnad Basheer, pp. 334-358 Full text PDF This script is a work of pure fiction intended to serve an educational purpose. Though it substitutes for a law review article in terms of format, it attempts to highlight the key arguments on the topic with appropriate references, where applicable. Much like an original piece of scholarship, it also advances some novel arguments in the form of tentative theses.
Analysis Data Localisation and the Balkanisation of the Internet Erica Fraser, pp. 359-373 Full text PDF Unrestricted international data flow is of critical importance to economies and people globally. Data localisation requirements interrupt the global flow of data by restricting where and how they may be stored, processed or transferred. Governments are increasingly imposing such requirements to protect the individual rights of their citizens, along with sentiments of national sovereignty and aspirations of economic benefit. However, data localisation requirements are likely to lead to the balkanisation of the Internet, which may threaten those very objectives. This Analysis article provides and introduction to and an overview of the likely advantages and drawbacks of data localisation requirements following the Snowden revelations. Economic, security and individual rights questions are addressed and illustrated with the recent Russian data localisation law.
Reports Conference Report: Liminal Spaces Symposium at the IAB 2016: What Does it Mean to Regulate in the Public Interest? Annie Sorbie, pp. 374-381 Full text PDF This Conference Report summarises a Wellcome Trust-sponsored symposium held at the 13th World Congress of the International Association of Bioethics, held in Edinburgh 14-17 June 2016 (IAB2016). This symposium was curated by the Liminal Spaces Project, which is conducted under the auspices of the JK Mason Institute for Medicine, Life Sciences and the Law at the University of Edinbugh School of Law, and sought to address the question: “What does it mean to regulate in the public interest?” Book reviews Privacy Revisited: A Global Perspective on the Right to be Left Alone Jiahong Chen, pp. 382-386 Full text PDF Surveillance Futures: Social and Ethical Implications of New Technologies for Children and Young People Joseph Savirimuthu, pp. 387-392 Full text PDF Rethinking Cyberlaw: A New Vision for Internet Law Joseph Savarimuthu, pp. 393-397 Full text PDF Cyber Law in Ireland TJ McIntyre, pp. 398-400 Full text PDF Medical Law and Ethics, 6th Edition Edward S. Dove, pp. 401-404 Full text PDF Patents, Human Rights and Access to Science Edward S. Dove, pp. 405-409 Full text PDF Popular articles this month Algorithmic Colonization of Africa Abeba Birhane Copyright in AI-generated works: Lessons from recent developments in patent law Rita Matulionyte and Jyh-An Lee El derecho penal y la pornografía infantil en el derecho comparado a nivel internacional, de Argentina, Estados Unidos y Europa Fernando J. Barrio and Maria Cecilia Sarricouet Territoriality in Intellectual Property Law: Examining the Tension between Securing Societal Goals and Treating Intellectual Property as an Investment Asset Emmanuel Kolawole Oke How Will the EU Digital Services Act Affect the Regulation of Disinformation? Sharon Galantino Home About SCRIPTed Submission Guidelines Blog Books for Review Sitemap Contact us Recent blog posts Timed influence: The future of Modern (Family) life and the law September 10, 2021 Predicting Innovation: Why Facebook/WhatsApp Merger Flunked April 1, 2021 Georgia vs. Public.Resource.org: The Morning After June 15, 2020 Online harms and Caroline’s Law – what’s the direction for the law reform? April 13, 2020 SCRIPTed is turning 15! January 14, 2019 Issues About SCRIPTed Submission Guidelines Blog Sitemap Contact us
