Newsletter To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search The Latest News Books & Culture Fiction & Poetry Humor & Cartoons Magazine Puzzles & Games Video Podcasts Goings On Shop Open Navigation Menu Find anything you save across the site in your account Close Alert News Desk The Panama Papers and the Monster Stories of the Future By Nicholas Lemann The Panama Papers began in the old-fashioned way: a leaker contacted the Süddeutsche Zeitung, in Munich, eventually offering up millions of documents from the secret files of the Mossack Fonseca law firm.
Photograph by CHRISTOF STACHE / AFP / Getty Save this story Save this story Save this story Save this story The movie “Spotlight,” which for many journalists provided a jolt of pure gratification, follows the canonical story line for news-biz triumphs. A determined team at a major-league newspaper, led by a brave and supportive editor, is permitted to spend months relentlessly chasing down a major story. Sources help, of course, but they need to be persuaded and verified, and there is much more to the work than simply receiving material. Finally, after many setbacks that would have daunted ordinary mortals, the team fits all the pieces together. The presses roll. Justice is done. Nobody but a big news organization could have accomplished this.
A lifetime ago, the Watergate and Pentagon Papers stories, at least as told by journalists, went this way, and more recently the WikiLeaks and Edward Snowden stories, if you squinted, could look as if they did, too. There were renowned, heroic papers involved—the Guardian , the Times , the Washington Post —and their involvement seemed to be essential to the large effects of the revelations. What’s unusual about the monster story of the moment, the Panama Papers , at least in the United States, is that it lacks one lead actor, which usually has been an organization from the top rank of the journalism establishment. The coördinator of the coverage is the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, a nineteen-year-old subsidiary of a nonprofit news organization in Washington called the Center for Public Integrity. The I.C.I.J. has only eleven full-time employees. The heart of their work, in this and other cases, was not “doing the story” by themselves but organizing an international network that took on the project, with all the parties agreeing to abide by a single deadline and to share credit. There were a hundred and seven media partners, some large (the BBC), some tiny (Inkyfada, in Tunisia). The _Time_s, the Washington Post , the Wall Street Journal , and the big American broadcast networks are notably absent from the list.
The Times ’ s public editor, Margaret Sullivan, wrote an uncharacteristically hazy article on why the Times did not participate in the consortium, and why it did not initially treat the Panama Papers as front-page news. She quoted Dean Baquet, the paper’s executive editor, saying that he could not recall the details of the Times ’ s past dealings with the I.C.I.J., but “I remember one talk when I was managing editor, and was worried about a story that involved many news organizations. But that wasn’t this cache.” Marina Walker Guevara, the deputy director of the I.C.I.J., has also been cryptic in her public comments about this—saying, on the organization’s site, that it chooses as partners only “Journalists who are team players and are willing to share their work with other colleagues around the world.” There is a more candid explanation in a paper that Bill Buzenberg, the former head of the Center for Public Integrity, wrote as a fellow at Harvard last year: “Other U.S. news organizations, most notably The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal , have often declined to collaborate, seeking exclusivity, or preferring to write their own stories about ICIJ’s results, after the fact, rather than join in the long, slow collaborative process leading up to publishing at an agreed-upon time and date.” Here’s what actually happened. The I.C.I.J. talked to the Times and at least several other major American news outlets about joining the teams associated with other major leaks, prior to the Panama Papers story. These talks did not go well, according to sources that were not authorized to speak on the matter, because the big-dog news organizations did not want to abide by the I.C.I.J.’s condition that they operate as co-equal members of a large team. So when the Panama Papers came along, the I.C.I.J. didn’t even bother pitching the Times and the other papers on joining the consortium. (The Times did publish a story based on I.C.I.J.-generated documents in 2013, but not as part of an I.C.I.J.-organized consortium.) Baquet offered me an explanation for the Times ’ s decisions: “What people forget is that everybody has to agree on what’s a story. The logistics are really tricky. Let’s say some document has not enough proof for me, but enough for another news organization—or vice versa. How do you manage that? It’s not as easy as you think. It’s not just ‘Go!’ It’s really difficult.” Baquet pointed out that the Times worked successfully with a limited number of partners—the Guardian , Der Spiegel , and Julian Assange himself—on the WikiLeaks story, and he said that if the I.C.I.J. had asked him to have the Times take part in the Panama Papers story, he would have agreed to join the consortium. “If they’d come to me and offered the level of detail that they had, I’d have swallowed and participated. If the story’s big enough, absolutely I would have participated.” Jill Abramson, Baquet’s predecessor and the executive editor during some of the past negotiations between the Times and the I.C.I.J., added, in an email, “Journalism is becoming more collaborative all the time, even within a single news organization. It takes a team to pull together any big project.” The absence of the Times and the others from the Panama Papers story might have been a one-time happenstance, but the lack of leading establishment players also might be a sign that the way journalism functions is changing. That’s what Bill Buzenberg appears to think. Toward the end of his Harvard paper, he added this little dig: “The attitude that ‘we know best’ and ‘we do it all ourselves’ is an increasingly antiquated notion in the digital age when knowledgeable members of the public and colleagues at other news organizations could be brought into an effective journalistic process in new ways to become part of a more robust collaborative investigative effort.” If Buzenberg is right, then the Panama Papers is the latest important piece of evidence in support of the notion that, in every realm, the way work gets done is shifting from big institutions to loose networks. It may be, though, that the I.C.I.J. model is merely a phase in a progression toward an even more radically distributed way of breaking monster stories, one that would not involve journalists at all. Mark Felt, the F.B.I. official who was Watergate’s Deep Throat, merely gave cryptic spoken clues to Bob Woodward—he absolutely depended on journalism to get the story out. Daniel Ellsberg, the leaker of the Pentagon Papers, had the ability to photocopy his material but not to publish it, so he needed journalism, too. Julian Assange and Edward Snowden could (and in Assange’s case, did) self-publish their purloined data troves electronically. They decided to seek partners in the mainstream media in order to get more attention, and to take advantage of American legal protections that made it difficult for the government to prevent publication.
The Panama Papers began in the old-fashioned way: a leaker contacted a traditional newspaper, the Süddeutsche Zeitung _,_ in Munich, eventually offering up more than eleven million documents from the secret files of the Mossack Fonseca law firm in Panama. The paper didn’t have the ability to go through that much raw data on its own, so it approached the I.C.I.J., which activated the consortium. What if, in the future, a leaker simply self-publishes, and asks the crowd to make sense of the material on an independent Web site or a social-media platform? The I.C.I.J. has three computer programmers turned data journalists on its small payroll who give it a better ability to make sense of a great mass of material quickly than most news organization have. What if a future data file is so enormous that significant numbers of high-end computer scientists who are expert in the more recondite realms of machine learning are better suited to find the news in it than anybody a journalism organization could afford to employ? Whether it involves big organizations or online networks, the sort of journalism narrative that turns on reporters and editors acting as intermediaries between a leaker and the public may turn out to have been just a phase in the history of the profession.
Daily E-mail address Sign up By signing up, you agree to our User Agreement and Privacy Policy & Cookie Statement.
 This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
John Cassidy By John Cassidy News Desk By Jon Lee Anderson Daily Comment By Steve Coll Critics at Large Sections News Books & Culture Fiction & Poetry Humor & Cartoons Magazine Crossword Video Podcasts Archive Goings On More Customer Care Shop The New Yorker Buy Covers and Cartoons Condé Nast Store Digital Access Newsletters Jigsaw Puzzle RSS About Careers Contact F.A.Q.
Media Kit Press Accessibility Help © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
The New Yorker may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Facebook X Snapchat YouTube Instagram Do Not Sell My Personal Info
