Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Simon Hill Gear The Best Car Dashcams, Phone Mounts, and Chargers Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED First, Stay Safe Read more Best Dashcam $435 at Amazon (With Rear Camera) A Dash Mount $25 at Amazon A Wireless Charging Mount $50 at Amazon Getting ready for a drive? Whether you use your phone for navigation, music, or podcasts— or are just bringing it along for the ride—the right accessories can make it the perfect passenger. A good car mount will keep it within easy reach and in view, so you don't need to dangerously fumble for your handset and take your eyes off the road. You’ll also want to keep your device charged. Add a dashcam to document your trip. We have tested a range of mounts, chargers, dashcams, and other accessories that might be useful for your daily commute.
Looking for more? Drivers should also consider putting together a Car Emergency Kit and checking out our Best Travel Mugs guide to round out the driving experience.
Updated August 2023: We added dashcams, mounts, chargers, and more from NextBase, iOttie, Belkin, Joyroom, Anker, Peak Design, and Monoprice, among others, and updated prices.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get WIRED for just $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.
com , full Gear coverage, and subscriber-only newsletters. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Nikolai Grigorev/Getty Images First, Stay Safe What to Consider With Car Mounts and Accessories Before we get started, there are a couple of things you need to think about.
Mount or dashcam placement : Wherever you place your phone mount or dashcam, it’s vital to ensure it does not obstruct your view of the road. Many mounts and dashcams allow for dash or windshield placement, but you should check your local laws. (It's illegal to attach mounts to the windshield in many US states.) Dashcams work well behind the rearview mirror if permitted.
Cable placement : Think about where cables will run, and use cables just long enough to prevent tangles and excess. (Read our Best USB-C Cables guide for some recommendations.) Consider how to keep the end of the cable handy. (The best mounts have cable management for this purpose.) If you are using a dashcam, they usually come with a small tool you can use to push the cable into the seams of your car’s interior panels to tuck it away. That can work for charging cables too.
Keep your eyes on the road : Whether setting up navigation, picking a playlist, or doing anything that requires your attention, do it before you start driving. Once you’re on the road, use voice commands or have a passenger deal with any issues, and keep your focus on the road. Distracted driving leads to thousands of deaths every year.
Photograph: Nextbase Best Dashcam NextBase 622GW Dash Cam A good dashcam provides an irrefutable record of any unexpected event that might occur when you’re driving. Video evidence can be helpful in an accident, and dashcams may even reduce your insurance premiums. After testing several dashcams, the NextBase 622GW stands out as the best, with crystal clear video, a parking mode that activates the camera if your car is bumped when parked, and a companion app that makes it easy to review video on your phone. Unfortunately, it is also one of the most expensive options. It costs even more if you add the rear camera, but I recommend it if you’re worried about accidents, as rear-end crashes are the most common.
The adhesive works well but is tough to remove if you ever get rid of this dashcam. The cam slots into a magnetic mount, so it’s easy to clip in and out. A fitting tool pushes cables into the seams of your car’s interior panels. The video goes up to 4K at 30 frames per second, but I found 1440p HD at 60 fps got the best results (1080p at 120 fps is also an option). The footage is clear enough to read license plates, even in low light or bad weather, though I couldn't always see details at night, particularly when it was wet. Still, the night vision and image stabilization elevate this above other dashcams I tested. It has built-in GPS tracking with what3words support. The optional SOS function alerts emergency services if you crash but requires a subscription. I had no trouble connecting my iPhone and Pixel via Wi-Fi and using the NextBase app to review videos, though user reviews suggest some folks ran into issues here. It also boasts Alexa support for voice commands.
$435 at Amazon (With Rear Camera) $400 at Best Buy Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: iOttie A Dash Mount iOttie Easy One Touch 5 What I like best about this phone mount is that you can use it one-handed. Adjust the bottom feet, and when you place your phone against the trigger button, the arms automatically close around it. To remove it, simply press the release bars. The telescopic arm allows you to tweak the placement, and the ball joint makes it easy to set an ideal angle. This thoughtful design carries over to your charging cable as well—there's a magnetic tab you can attach to the end of your charging cord so it sticks to the back of the mount (so you don’t have to fish around for it).
In my testing, the base with the locking suction cup was very secure, even on bumpy terrain. The downside? Removing the adhesive pad from my dashboard was tricky.
$25 at Amazon $25 at Target $25 at Best Buy Photograph: iOttie A Wireless Charging Mount iOttie Wireless Car Charger This is the mount in my car now, and it maintains everything that’s good about iOttie’s previous mount but adds wireless charging support. You can get it with the suction cup for the dashboard or opt for a CD slot or air vent mount. It closes automatically around your phone, has adjustable feet, a rotating ball joint to angle your phone, and a quick-release bar that pokes out on both sides. The Qi wireless charging can deliver 10 watts to an Android phone or 7.5 watts to an iPhone, and your phone automatically charges when you place it in the mount and start the car. You'll want to make sure your smartphone supports wireless charging in the first place.
All you'll need to do is plug the supplied cable into your car’s power socket, and the other end goes into a MicroUSB port on the bottom of the mount. The car socket end handily includes a second USB-A port you can use to charge another device.
$50 at Amazon $50 at Target Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Joyroom Runner-Up Wireless Charging Mount Joyroom Auto-Match Wireless Car Charger Mount While I prefer the look and feel of the iOttie wireless charging mount above, this Joyroom mount has a couple of noteworthy features. Not only does it automatically clamp your phone when you slot it in, but it also adjusts the coil position for best alignment (you must adjust the feet manually with the iOttie). It also has a soft blue light on the bottom edge that’s handy when it’s dark. Charging goes up to 15 watts, but only with certain phones. It charges most Android phones at 10 watts and iPhones at 7.5 watts. It’s affordable and comes with a USB-C to USB-A cable, but you’ll need a charger if you don’t have a USB-A port in your car. You must start the car for the mount to work, but a capacitor ensures you can release your phone even after switching the engine off.
$36 at Amazon Photograph: Belkin A Minimalist Mount Belkin Car Vent Mount If you recoil at the thought of a chunky cradle, you may prefer this sleek solution from Belkin. It’s a svelte, classy-looking silver and black vent mount that grips your phone surprisingly securely. You can rotate it to switch between portrait and landscape, and there’s a handy rubber clip on the back to hold your charging cable in place. It doesn’t work so well with larger phones, but smaller is better because this has no feet to support the bottom of the phone.
★ For larger phones : The Kenu Airframe Pro ($30) has a similar design but can accommodate larger phones and thick cases. It has a ball-and-socket joint that lets you rotate the device 360 degrees and slightly angle your phone for a better view.
$25 at Amazon Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Belkin Best MagSafe Vent Mount Belkin BoostCharge Pro Car Charger With a compact design and support for 15-watt wireless charging, Belkin’s BoostCharge Pro is our favorite MagSafe vent mount. The prongs cling to your vent securely, and a powerful array of magnets ensure MagSafe-enabled iPhones don't budge an inch, even on bumpy roads. (It works with the iPhone 12 , iPhone 13 , and iPhone 14 range.) Your mileage may vary with non-MagSafe iPhone cases. There’s also a ball joint, so you can slightly angle your phone for a better view. It's a shame the USB-C cable is permanently attached, as it’s long. There is a plug-in charger for folks without USB-C ports in their car, but I recommend snagging a separate dual or triple charger like the ones below to gain extra ports.
★ Another alternative: WIRED reviews editor Julian Chokkattu really likes the Peak Design Car Vent Mount ($100).
 It stays super secure on the vent—there's no wobbling—and his phone stays secure to the magnetic charging pad. It works well with iPhones with MagSafe support, but you can also pair it with a Pixel or Samsung phone if you use Peak Design's Everyday Case.
$100 at Amazon $100 at Apple Photograph: iOttie A MagSafe Dash Mount iOttie Velox Pro Magnetic Wireless Cooling Charger If you prefer a mount on your dash or windshield, this classy MagSafe mount from iOttie is a smart pick for folks with an iPhone 12 or later. It attaches to a dashboard pad or windshield with a suction cup that proved secure in my testing. The telescopic arm combines with a ball joint to give you a wide range of movement to find the ideal position. Sadly, it maxes out at 7.5 watts for charging, but I like that the USB-C charging cable is removable, so you can detach and stow it when your iPhone is topped up. There is also a built-in fan to help keep the temperature down when the sun is out.
$75 at Amazon Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Scosche A Magnetic Mount Scosche MagicMount Pro Charge5 If you are keen to get a magnetic mount but don’t have a MagSafe iPhone , try this system from Scosche. It comes with a metal plate you can stick to the back of any phone or slip inside your case, allowing it to magnetically stick to the mount. (It does also work with MagSafe iPhones.) However, the magnets are not especially strong, so if you have a thick case or a large phone, do not pick this mount.
The dash mount itself sticks securely and is adjustable. The charger that goes into your car socket has a spare USB-C port, which is handy, and there are two stick-on cable management clips in the box. I'm just not a huge fan of the permanently attached cable, which uses a proprietary cable instead of USB-C.
$37 at Amazon $60 at Scosche Photograph: Scosche A Fast Charger Scosche PowerVolt PD30 Fast Mini There are two things that elevate this above your average car socket charger. First, it has a clever small fabric tab that makes it easy to pull out and allows it to sit flush in the socket. Second, it doesn’t only support the Power Delivery (PD) standard, but it also supports Programmable Power Supply (PPS), which means it can charge all the latest phones from Samsung or Apple at top speed. The USB-C port can deliver up to 30 watts, so you can even charge a MacBook Air. If you need a cable, check our Best USB-C Cables guide for ideas.
$18 at Amazon Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Otterbox A Dual Charger OtterBox Dual Port Car Charger Picking the right car charger obviously depends on what you need to charge, but if you have a couple of recent phones, you cannot go wrong with this one. You get two USB-C ports, one rated at 20 watts and the other at 30 watts. Both support Power Delivery and the 30-watt port also supports PPS, so you can fast-charge most phones or tablets. OtterBox offers a few different dual-port car chargers, including one with a 12-W USB-A and an 18-W USB-C ($30).
 They come in black or white, with a gold highlight, and each has a textured end that’s easy to grip.
$26 at Amazon $35 at Otterbox Photograph: Anker A Triple Charger Anker 535 Car Charger If you want to charge multiple devices from your car socket, this triple charger from Anker has you covered with two USB-C ports and one USB-A. With nothing else plugged in, the first USB-C can deliver up to 67 watts, enough to charge a laptop. If you want to use the ports together, you can draw 45 watts from the first USB-C (which also supports PPS and PD) and 9 watts apiece from the other two ports. You get a 3.2-foot USB-C to USB-C charging cable with it.
$40 at Amazon Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Amazon A Portable Battery Noco Boost Plus GB40 Jump Starter It’s always a smart idea to have a power bank in your car, and you can find a range of options in our Best Portable Chargers guide. But this one from Noco could be a roadside lifesaver because it can jump-start your car when the battery is dead. The Noco Boost Plus is a 1,000-amp, 12-volt battery pack with jump leads. It also has a USB-A port to charge your phone or other devices and a handy built-in 100-lumen LED flashlight. It’s IP65-rated and good for temperatures from –4 degrees Fahrenheit up to 122 degrees. Sling it in your trunk as part of an emergency kit, but remember to charge it at least every six months.
$100 at Amazon $100 at Walmart Photograph: Monoprice A Charging Cable Monoprice USB-C to USB-C Select Series 3.1 Gen 2 If you want to top off your phone or another mobile device in the car, you need a cable, and this affordable option from Monoprice is great. It’s a short, thick, durable cable capable of 100-W charging and 10-Gbps data transfer. The shorter lengths (1.64 or 3.28 feet) are better for the car, and Monoprice offers a lifetime warranty. If you have an iPhone or USB-A port in your car, you’ll want to choose something else from our best USB cables guide.
$12 at Amazon $10 at Monoprice Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: iOttie Honorable Mentions Other Car Accessories We Have Tested iOttie Aivo View Dash Cam for $150 : With a sleek, compact design, the iOttie Aivo View looks the part and records video at up to 1,600p and 30 frames per second. There’s a Bluetooth remote button to trigger recordings, and it supports Alexa for voice commands, but I found the app flaky and very slow to download videos.
Vantrue Element 1 Dash Cam for $150 : This dinky dashcam from Vantrue records crisp video at up to 1,440p and 30 frames per second with support for HDR. It also has a park mode and built-in Wi-Fi and GPS, but I could not get the app to connect, so I had to remove the microSD card to review the footage.
NextBase 222 Dash Cam for $90 : This basic dashcam works reasonably well and has the same design as NextBase’s more expensive models with a color screen on the back. But it can only record at 1080p and 30 frames per second, and I found it hard to read license plates at night. It does support parking mode, but there’s no GPS, so videos lack information on coordinates and speed.
NextBase 522GW Dash Cam for $300 : If your budget won’t stretch to the 622GW above, this is the next model down, and it boasts many of the same features, including parking mode, Alexa, and the optional emergency SOS subscription. Video tops out at 1,440p and 30 fps, there’s no what3words support, and nighttime performance is nowhere near as good, but this is probably your best option in this price bracket.
iOttie Velox MagSafe Wireless Charging Car Mount for $48 : Our previous pick for the best MagSafe vent mount isn't just classy but also rock solid. It’s similar to the Belkin listed above but maxes out at 7.5 watts. If you don’t mind the slower charging speed, you can save money by choosing this mount.
Joyroom MagSafe Vent Mount Charger for $33 : Here’s another wireless charging MagSafe vent mount for iPhones. It holds MagSafe iPhones and cases securely, and emits a soft blue light to make it easy to find in the dark (it turns off when you mount your iPhone). It is a solid option to have your iPhone in landscape orientation, but is not suitable for heavier Max models. Joyroom claims it charges at 15 watts, but it only charged my iPhone 14 Pro at 7.5 watts.
Joyroom Magnetic Wireless Car Charger Mount for $30 : This is similar to the Joyroom mount listed above, but it lacks feet and only works with MagSafe iPhones. It works pretty well, and you can have your iPhone in portrait or landscape orientation. You get a USB-C to USB-A cable but no charger in the box.
Mophie Dual USB-C Car Charger for $35 : This is a solid dual USB-C port charger that only misses out on a spot above because it maxes out at 40 watts. It supports Power Delivery, has a durable aluminum finish, and there’s a handy grippy texture that makes it easy to remove.
Contributor X Topics phones buying guides Shopping cars chargers Accessories and Peripherals smartphones Jaina Grey Matt Jancer Scott Gilbertson Louryn Strampe Medea Giordano Julian Chokkattu Louryn Strampe Louryn Strampe WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
