Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Blizzard's Ben Brode Answers Hearthstone Questions From Twitter About Credits Released on 03/20/2018 My name is Ben Brode, I'm the game director of Hearthstone and welcome to Hearthstone Support.
Diederik, does nobody at Blizzard have a better idea than the coin to balance going second in Hearthstone? The answer is no, nobody does.
We did have a lot of ideas about how to balance going second, the first idea was just the player who goes second gets an extra card, that's it, and we noticed that with just that one change, the first turn advantage was 60% vs 40%, that's like a 20% difference, it's significant right? And we wanted to get it to about 55%, 45%, that's about the first turn advantage in chess.
And we tried a couple things, the first was what if the player who goes second starts with more life right? Because what often happens is first player has an advantage, they put the second player on the back foot, and they struggle back but over time that extra card makes a bigger difference, especially once you get 10 mana and it starts to even out, and they can come back so let's give the second player a little bit more time but it didn't make the gameplay feel good enough because they were always on the back foot so we tried things like what if player two starts with a 1/1 minion in the battlefield? What if player two's first minion gets +1/+1, it's just got a free buff for their first minion? And these types of changes really started to make player two feel like they could overcome that advantage and get back into the game and start fighting it out.
But the thing that made us feel the best was the coin.
It does a couple things, one it's a very active thing, you get to choose how you use the coin.
It's pretty skill-testing, figuring out if you want to use it early in the game or for a big swing turn later on.
It creates a moment where when you play the coin, your opponent goes uh oh, it's the coin turn, what are they gonna do? And that's cool too, and it does significantly affect the first turn advantage.
We got I think the last time we looked at it it was like 51% to 49%, it was very close.
It's closer than a lot of other strategy games, and we think that's great, the coin's doing a great job for us.
From Spivey of the Ebon Blade, what are the chances we see cards added to the classic set? I actually think this is very high.
The classic set is meant to set the baseline fantasy of Warcraft in the Hearthstone universe.
It's mean to provide players with a baseline of power so that they can build some satisfying decks.
The classics is one of the most powerful sets in the game right now, actually kinda become a problem for us because it doesn't rotate like the other sets do so if there's a really strong deck that uses almost entirely classic and basic cards, the standard around it just won't change, it'll be the same every year, I think that's we needed a format that does change every year, that's why we have the standard format.
So we've been rotating some cards out of classic and that's been causing some disparities in the number of cards per class.
Mage has less cards than any other class in standard right now because of the Hall of Fame.
So I think we have some opportunity to give Mages a couple more cards, we'd have to do it carefully because like if we add too powerful cards to Mage then we have the same problem we had before the Hall of Fame rotations where the decks are the same every year, Mages playing the same cards every year.
So it's okay that they're playing some cards every year, I think there's a baseline of cards that's good to have, it's very powerful in those sets, we did rotate some into the Hall of Fame, I think we'll bring some back, maybe less powerful ones, maybe ones that set the class fantasy really strongly and also give you an idea of what that class identity is but I'm not sure what those would be just yet.
From Sebastian Quiroga, what led to the decision to add hero characters like Lord Jaraxxus? It was a really creative mechanic at the time.
Actually, this is a great story because we were doing a play test with one of the engineers from the World of Warcraft team, Pat Dawson, and this is way back in the early days of Hearthstone and we were still experimenting with ways to represent the Alliance and the Horde as different factions, which we eventually scrapped, but every class had an Alliance hero and a Horde hero.
And for us, the first Warlock Horde hero was Cho'gall, and the Alliance, we had trouble coming up with a satisfying Alliance warlock hero, so we went with the one that I could remember most, which was Wilfred Fizzlebang from the Grand Tournament.
And Pat Dawson sits down for the play test and chooses Wilfred Fizzlebang and in World of Warcraft, Wilfred Fizzlebang tries to summon a fearsome Doomguard for the players to battle, but he accidentally summons Jaraxxus, eredar lord of the Burning Legion, who destroys Wilfred Fizzlebang and takes the place of the Doomguard as the new boss that the players have to battle.
So Pat Dawson sits down and he selects Wilfred Fizzlebang and he says Wilfred Fizzlebang, is there a Jaraxxus card in this deck? And there wasn't, and I was like oh, that's a huge mistake, and so I immediately went back to my desk and I designed Lord Jaraxxus, who when you summon him, he destroys you and takes your places as the new boss and that's how we came up with that whole mechanic.
Alright, from MagicianMoo, if we have nerfs in the game, how 'bout buffs? I believe there are cards that would benefit from it.
I agree with that, there's a lot of cards that would benefit from a buff, but generally nerfs happen when something is way out of proportion with the rest of the cards and we have to bring it in line, but buffs imply that maybe we want to get everything in this thin, narrow band, a power level, and that's actually just not the goal right? We have cards that are intentionally bad, maybe because the play experience they create isn't as fun or we want to create a challenge for players who really like to win with bad cards or the segment of our audience that prefers beating you with cards you think are bad, it makes their wins feel better, so we don't necessarily want every card to be in that thin range, and also we like putting cards that in the future will make other cards better, right? A lot of the Paladin secrets were pretty weak, but that meant that we could create cards, like Mysterious Challenger that made Paladin secrets much better, and all of a sudden, with just a few cards, we could really change the meta and maybe we did too good of a job with Mysterious Challenger, but it lets us use those cards in the future to have a big impact when new cards are released.
From GreenTheAssassin, with three more sets becoming wild and possibly more wild players due to the current events and the rotation, are there plans to make wild sets purchasable with in-game gold? And actually, a lot of people don't know that you can actually buy wild sets and adventures on our websites through the Battle.net shop, you can also if you've ever bought like a piece of an old adventure while it was still in rotation, you can actually completely finish out the wings that you haven't bought yet with gold but we are trying to keep the in-game shop very clean and very simple, we don't sell a lot of different products there, just the recent expansions.
And so we've tried to keep that on the websites and out of the game client where possible, that said there's a lot of people asking for this, and it's something that we would consider going forward.
This is from Joshua the Unpaid Intern, you should fight for a higher wage, sir.
Will dungeon run be updated to go with the new expansion? Well, we just announced the newest expansion of Hearthstone recently, and we have some exciting single player content there, it does follow along with the theme of dungeon runs, the way that plays, but it's got a different take where we're exploring kind of a more monstrous side and doing some monster hunting, so it'll play a lot like dungeon runs, but it's got some fun twists I think players will enjoy.
Here's a question from Andrew is taking candle, which shame on you Andrew.
Which college degree do you think would help most with becoming a Hearthstone world champion? I mean this is controversial, I don't know, I would just say forget college, just play Hearthstone, there's no class on how to become a great Hearthstone player.
Find other Hearthstone players that are quite good, ask them for advice, put together a play group and play a bunch of Hearthstone, but don't let your parents see that answer, alright? Kristen, I haven't played Hearthstone in over a year, what? Oh, but I wanna get back into it, are there any resources that can help me? Yes, certainly, I mean there are lots of people online talking about Hearthstone on the Hearthstone subreddit or our forums, there are a lot of people streaming Hearthstone all the time, that's a great way to get back into Hearthstone, you'll see a lot of the popular decks or some of the new cards that have been released without having to go in and play on your own, but also you can just come in and play Hearthstone, we won't bite.
From NegativeRainbow, is tournament mode going to have sideboard support? Sideboards in Hearthstone would be so nice.
It's not, but I will say that tournament mode is kind of a misnomer with our in-game tournaments that we're working on right now.
It's a specific implementation of competitive support for Hearthstone, specifically meant for you and your friends or for small communities or fireside gatherings to get together and have a competitive experience together.
Now we're gonna start out pretty simple, we're gonna have things like conquest and last hero standing, you'll be able to choose a number of decks built into the tournament, but we wanna really listen to players, figure out how we can make that better over time and continue to add features and support going forward.
Often our tournaments only play with a single deck one time, if you win with this deck, you've won or if you lose with the deck, it's out of the tournament in case of last hero standing, and so you actually don't have a lot of opportunities to go in and out of the sideboard which is essentially a separate group of cards that you can sub in and out of your deck, so the current formats we're using wouldn't make great use out of it, but we'll talk about those kind of things going forward, I can't wait to get feedback from players about how we can make tournaments better.
From fcchan, why aren't there female kobolds? There are, hard to tell maybe.
From Mike, where did the inspire mechanic go? RIP.
Well, you know, we could bring it back some day, we don't have any plans that we've announced, but I really like when we come up with new mechanics that really explore new space, right? Inspire was a lot of fun for us to design around, we created a lot of cards in the Grand Tournament that really cared about interacting with your hero power in new ways.
We explored a lot of the space that we were interested to explore.
Obviously there's more space there to explore, I think we might go back there some day, but we have a lot of really fun ideas and we do want new sets to be exciting and groundbreaking and (laughs) inspiring, so we'll explore some new spaces for now, but who knows, we might go back and check out inspire in the future.
Austral, Ben, when are we gonna see Pepe in Hearthstone? At least a card back, we love that little bird, less than three.
Um I y'know we haven't talked about it, we had a pepe meeting that we were gonna try to figure out where to get him in, and it got canceled, somebody had a conflict so I'll get that back on the books and we'll chat about it.
From Cindercide, will there be ways to get old card backs? Yes, there will be ways to get old card backs, we've had actually a lot of conversations about what the best way to do this is.
I think there's an interesting thing here, right? Because if you just give them say hey everyone, here's all the old card backs, I think a lot of people would be pretty upset, right? We worked pretty hard to get those card backs, it makes us feel special that we have card backs other people don't have, so I think we have to make the friction to achieve an old card back pretty high.
With that said, if we make the friction too high, and make it feel kinda too expensive, I think that also could make people feel upset so we have to figure out the right balance there and the right way to deliver those old card backs that feels like it has enough friction but we're still working on that.
From Sam Spires, is cubelock a concern slash on your radar? Yes, it is on our radar, and I think it could be a concern, it's kind of interesting, it's a very skill-testing deck which is generally very good for Hearthstone, right? To have these decks that are in the hands of a player who hasn't played 100 games of it, pretty low win rate, in the hands of a player who's played over 100 games, a very high win rate.
That's good, that means there's a lot of interesting decisions to make and you play it differently against different decks so I like that and overall have to figure out is the power level too good? There are decks that are more powerful than it so that's not the only metric, but it's something to think about.
Is the next set gonna have an impact on its performance? That's another thing that we have to figure out as well, there's also another component which is just harder to use data to get at, which is how does this deck feel? How does it feel to play? Which I think actually pretty good, and how does it feel to lose to? Which I think we're still getting data on, some people really don't like losing to it and some people have found ways to interact with it in a more interesting way.
But we are looking at it, I don't think that we're totally unconcerned with cubelock or warlock, but I don't think we also wanna be too knee-jerky about how we respond to potential imbalances, especially with a new set on the horizon.
From Jthreau, hey bdbrode, what's your favorite golden card? I want to craft it in your honor.
Please don't say Milhouse.
I actually saw this tweet and already tweeted at him, I actually went through every card in the collection and looked for my favorite golden card and I saw Crushing Walls and I was like wow that's an incredible golden animation, the walls are literally crushing the people in the picture and so I mentioned that and he crafted it, so good on you.
From Darling in the FRANXX, with so many expansions out now and more to come soon, have you ever given any more thought to increasing deck sizes? Or perhaps making 60 card deck variants which uses its own separate game mode? Actually we literally have tried this exact idea.
Every game should feel different, it's fun when you have a different experience each time.
And that could be because players are coming at you with different decks or because the way that your deck plays out is slightly different each time.
And the more cards you have in your deck, in the smaller the limit on the number of duplicates you can have in your deck, the more different each game will play out.
So we actually tried a mode where you had to have 60 cards and they literally all had to be different and that created this really interesting experience where the games were very different over time.
It also has an effect that it's harder to build a cohesive deck, so I think it's the kinda thing that might be fun for a tavern brawl or something to play with for a while, but maybe not core mode for the game, at least right now.
From Mark Fanta, when are you going to add a spectate random match button to the menu? I love watching people play, but don't have many friends, oh, I'm sorry Mark, I think it's because I'm a slytherin, hashtag spectate hashtag Hearthstone.
Well we don't have a plan for that right now but you can go on Twitch and just select a random stream and just start watching somebody.
It's a great way to both see the game that's playing and hear their thoughts, which I think is a really fun part of the spectating experience, it's a lot harder to do through the in-game spectating.
From Nick period question mark exclamation point, will you ever add an award for fully leveling up your hero? Well right now we have golden cards that, as you level up your hero, you get more and more golden cards, you earn your class cards first and then the elusive basic neutral minions, and so you do get rewards all the way up to level 60.
I think it's one of our more satisfying progression systems because you get experience points whether you win or lose and it makes you feel better about losing if you get something, like some XP, so I'd like to extend that system in the future, we don't have any specific plans about how to do that, but I think it would be nice if that system lasted a little bit longer than it currently does.
Thomas Zdancewicz, with the reverse nerf on molten giant, does that mean that team five is looking at reverse other nerfed cards in the future when they rotate to wild, like spirit claws or the caverns below? Why reverse the giants nerf and not other cards? Molten giant has a following, I would say, really when we nerfed a bunch of cards going into the standard rotation, one of the biggest reasons behind some of those nerfs was to make sure that the standard environment had the ability to change over time.
Molten giant was specifically nerfed for that reason because there was a bunch of archetypes of decks that were specifically enabled by molten giant, so once we came up with the idea of the Hall of Fame, we really came up with that idea because of the community response to the molten giant nerf, then we could move cards out of the standard environment and into the wild format, which is great for playing the cards that you love in that format.
We felt like molten giant was the perfect card to move into that format, it's not too powerful there hopefully, and you get to play those loved decks in that format, but there are other cards that maybe are just too powerful, they're not enabling certain deck archetypes that I don't think are as good of a candidate to move to wild, but we're gonna analyze those on a case-by-case basis going forward.
Thanks for watching, I hope I answered your questions.
This has been Hearthstone Support with Wired.
Starring: Ben Brode Gordon Ramsay Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers Medical Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Jeff Kaplan Answers Overwatch Questions From Twitter Nick Offerman Answers Woodworking Questions From Twitter Bungie's Luke Smith Answers Destiny Questions From Twitter Jackie Chan & Olivia Munn Answer Martial Arts Questions From Twitter Scott Kelly Answers Astronaut Questions From Twitter LaVar Ball Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Dillon Francis Answers DJ Questions From Twitter Tony Hawk Answers Skateboarding Questions From Twitter Jerry Rice Answers Football Questions From Twitter Garry Kasparov Answers Chess Questions From Twitter U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Athletes Answer Olympics Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Anil Seth Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Ben Brode Answers Hearthstone Questions From Twitter John Cena Answers Wrestling Questions From Twitter The Slow Mo Guys Answer Slow Motion Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Even More Science Questions From Twitter James Cameron Answers Sci-Fi Questions From Twitter Best of Tech Support: Bill Nye, Neil DeGrasse Tyson and More Answer Science Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers Even More League of Legends Questions from Twitter PlayerUnknown Answers PUBG Questions From Twitter Liza Koshy, Markiplier, Rhett & Link, and Hannah Hart Answer YouTube Creator Questions From Twitter NCT 127 Answer K-Pop Questions From Twitter Neil deGrasse Tyson Answers Science Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers More Medical Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Claire Answer Cooking Questions From Twitter Bang Bang Answers Tattoo Questions From Twitter Ed Boon Answers Mortal Kombat 11 Questions From Twitter Nick Jonas and Kelly Clarkson Answer Singing Questions from Twitter Penn Jillette Answers Magic Questions From Twitter The Russo Brothers Answer Avengers: Endgame Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers Climbing Questions From Twitter Sloane Stephens Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 3 Astronaut Nicole Stott Answers Space Questions From Twitter Mark Cuban Answers Mogul Questions From Twitter Ubisoft's Alexander Karpazis Answers Rainbow Six Siege Questions From Twitter Marathon Champion Answers Running Questions From Twitter Ninja Answers Fortnite Questions From Twitter Cybersecurity Expert Answers Hacking Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Chris Answer Thanksgiving Questions From Twitter SuperM Answers K-Pop Questions From Twitter The Best of Tech Support: Ken Jeong, Bill Nye, Nicole Stott and More Twitter's Jack Dorsey Answers Twitter Questions From Twitter Jodie Whittaker Answers Doctor Who Questions From Twitter Astronomer Jill Tarter Answers Alien Questions From Twitter Tattoo Artist Bang Bang Answers More Tattoo Questions From Twitter Respawn Answers Apex Legends Questions From Twitter Michael Strahan Answers Super Bowl Questions From Twitter Dr. Martin Blaser Answers Coronavirus Questions From Twitter Scott Adkins Answers Martial Arts Training Questions From Twitter Psychiatrist Daniel Amen Answers Brain Questions From Twitter The Hamilton Cast Answers Hamilton Questions From Twitter Travis & Lyn-Z Pastrana Answer Stunt Questions From Twitter Mayim Bialik Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Zach King Answers TikTok Questions From Twitter Riot Games Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Aaron Sorkin Answers Screenwriting Questions From Twitter Survivorman Les Stroud Answers Survival Questions From Twitter Joe Manganiello Answers Dungeons & Dragons Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers Star Wars Questions From Twitter Wizards of the Coast Answer Magic: The Gathering Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers More Star Wars Questions From Twitter VFX Artist Answers Movie & TV VFX Questions From Twitter CrossFit Coach Answers CrossFit Questions From Twitter Yo-Yo Ma Answers Cello Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Cadaver Questions From Twitter Babish Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Jacob Collier Answers Music Theory Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers More Tolkien Questions From Twitter Wolfgang Puck Answers Restaurant Questions From Twitter Fast & Furious Car Expert Answers Car Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter Olympian Dominique Dawes Answers Gymnastics Questions From Twitter Allyson Felix Answers Track Questions From Twitter Dr. Michio Kaku Answers Physics Questions From Twitter Former NASA Astronaut Answers Space Questions From Twitter Surgeon Answers Surgery Questions From Twitter Beekeeper Answers Bee Questions From Twitter Michael Pollan Answers Psychedelics Questions From Twitter Ultramarathoner Answers Questions From Twitter Bug Expert Answers Insect Questions From Twitter Former Cult Member Answers Cult Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers MORE Dead Body Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers Poison Questions From Twitter Brewmaster Answers Beer Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Biology Questions From Twitter James Dyson Answers Design Questions From Twitter Dermatologist Answers Skin Questions From Twitter Dwyane Wade Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Baker Answers Baking Questions from Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Questions From Twitter Age Expert Answers Aging Questions From Twitter Fertility Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Biological Anthropologist Answers Love Questions From Twitter Mathematician Answers Math Questions From Twitter Statistician Answers Stats Questions From Twitter Sleep Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Botanist Answers Plant Questions From Twitter Ornithologist Answers Bird Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers MORE Rock Climbing Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers MORE Body Language Questions From Twitter Waste Expert Answers Garbage Questions From Twitter Garbage Boss Answers Trash Questions From Twitter J. Kenji López-Alt Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Veterinarian Answers Pet Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Gut Questions From Twitter Chemist Answers Chemistry Questions From Twitter Taste Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Paleontologist Answers Dinosaur Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers More Biology Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Even More Biology Questions From Twitter ER Doctor Answers Injury Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers More Poison Questions From Twitter Energy Expert Answers Energy Questions From Twitter BBQ Pitmaster Answers BBQ Questions From Twitter Neil Gaiman Answers Mythology Questions From Twitter Sushi Chef Answers Sushi Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers Tolkien Questions From Twitter Audiologist Answers Hearing Questions From Twitter Marine Biologist Answers Shark Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 4 John McEnroe Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Malcolm Gladwell Answers Research Questions From Twitter Financial Advisor Answers Money Questions From Twitter Stanford Computer Scientist Answers Coding Questions From Twitter Wildlife Vet Answers Wild Animal Questions From Twitter Climate Scientist Answers Earth Questions From Twitter Medical Doctor Answers Hormone Questions From Twitter James Hoffmann Answers Coffee Questions From Twitter Video Game Director Answers Questions From Twitter Robotics Professor Answers Robot Questions From Twitter Scam Fighters Answer Scam Questions From Twitter Forensics Expert Answers Crime Scene Questions From Twitter Chess Pro Answers Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter...Once Again Memory Champion Answers Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Answers Illusion Questions From Twitter Immunologist Answers Immune System Questions From Twitter Rocket Scientists Answer Questions From Twitter How Vinyl Records Are Made (with Third Man Records) Neurosurgeon Answers Brain Surgery Questions From Twitter Therapist Answers Relationship Questions From Twitter Polyphia's Tim Henson Answers Guitar Questions From Twitter Structural Engineer Answers City Questions From Twitter Harvard Professor Answers Happiness Questions From Twitter A.I. Expert Answers A.I. Questions From Twitter Pizza Chef Answers Pizza Questions From Twitter Former CIA Chief of Disguise Answers Spy Questions From Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Space Questions From Twitter Cannabis Scientist Answers Questions From Twitter Sommelier Answers Wine Questions From Twitter Mycologist Answers Mushroom Questions From Twitter Genndy Tartakovsky Answers Animation Questions From Twitter Pro Card Counter Answers Casino Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Lung Questions From Twitter Paul Hollywood & Prue Leith Answer Baking Questions From Twitter Geneticist Answers Genetics Questions From Twitter Sneaker Expert Jeff Staple Answers Sneaker Questions From Twitter 'The Points Guy' Brian Kelly Answers Travel Questions From Twitter Master Chef Answers Indian Food & Curry Questions From Twitter Archaeologist Answers Archaeology Questions From Twitter LegalEagle's Devin Stone Answers Law Questions From Twitter Todd McFarlane Answers Comics Questions From Twitter Reptile Expert Answers Reptile Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Burial Questions From Twitter Eye Doctor Answers Eye Questions From Twitter Computer Scientist Answers Computer Questions From Twitter Neurologist Answers Nerve Questions From Twitter Hacker Answers Penetration Test Questions From Twitter Nutritionist Answers Nutrition Questions From Twitter Experts Predict the Future of Technology, AI & Humanity Doctor Answers Blood Questions From Twitter Sports Statistician Answers Sports Math Questions From Twitter Shark Tank's Mark Cuban Answers Business Questions From Twitter Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Director Answers Video Game Questions From Twitter Criminologist Answers True Crime Questions From Twitter Physicist Answers Physics Questions From Twitter | Tech Support Chess Pro Answers More Questions From Twitter Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
