Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Scott Gilbertson Julian Chokkattu Gear Apple's Powerful and Pricey Mac Pro Arrives in December Apple's newest hardware products are the Mac Pro (left) and the Pro Display XDR with its optional stand.
Apple Save this story Save Save this story Save Updated on November 13: Apple has announced a slightly firmer December release window, along with new improvements to the Mac Pro, like its new 8 TB storage option and the ability to edit up to six simultaneous streams of 8K video.
At its annual developers' conference in June, Apple finally delivered what the designers, photographers, video editors, and other pro-grade creatives who grew up using the company's machines have been waiting for: multiple references to the progressive rock band Rush.
 Sadly, this news was soon overshadowed by the insanely powerful new Mac Pro.
Pity the unfaithful who gave up on the long-neglected previous version of the Mac Pro and bought the recently upgraded iMac instead, because Apple has finally created a Mac Pro worthy of the name. The look of the computer also harkens back to the design language used on the Mac Pro from two generations ago, which means that yes, Apple's top machine once again looks like a huge cheese grater.
WWDC keynotes usually shun specs, but Apple peppered its onstage routine with stats and figures for the announcement of the new desktop computer, touting the details of graphics cards and brightness nits in the monitor. Apple has clearly been taking notes from its professional users because these are exactly the kind of details the pro crowd cares about. The new Mac Pro is, by design, a high-end machine. It also has a high-end price tag that not many will be able to justify.
Apple The new Mac Pro starts at $5,999 for the 8-core model with 32 GB of RAM and a 256-GB solid-state drive. That can be configured up to a 28-core model with 1.5 terabytes of RAM, and while Apple initially only offered up to 4 TB for the SSD, you can now go all the way up to 8 TB. A new Pro Display XDR monitor—a new Apple product as well—to go along with your workstation will set you back another $4,999 for the base model, bringing the cost of a full setup to $11,000. And that's just the entry-level configuration.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So The new Mac Pro is all about processing power and graphics. It can handle as many as four AMD Radeon Pro Vega II graphics cards, which Apple originally said would net you enough power to play three simultaneous streams of 8K video, but optimizations to Final Cut Pro will now allow up to six simultaneous 8K streams.
Apple has bucked some of its own design trends by making the Mac Pro's case easy to open. It's a user-upgradable Mac with up to eight PCI Express expansion slots—twice as many slots as on the last Mac Pro, which debuted back in 2013. This one also has attachable wheels and is designed to work as a rack-mounted system as well.
Apple is also touting a new hardware acceleration card it calls Afterburner. It's the magic behind the Mac Pro's ability to handle those six simultaneous streams of 8K ProRes RAW footage, which is what you get from RED and similar high-end cameras used for professional filmmaking. With the graphics card handling the video playback, you can use all those primary CPU cores to handle creative effects and other processing tasks.
Apple Even the most powerful video-editing workstation is nothing without a display that can best represent the machine's output, and for that Apple has delivered something that might be more impressive than the Mac Pro. The Pro Display XDR is a 32-inch Retina 6K monitor. It boasts up to 1,600 nits of brightness, sustaining 1,000 nits indefinitely—that's an impressively high output and is only achievable because the back of the monitor is heavily vented so the guts don't overheat. The rear venting uses the same cheese-grater pattern as the new Mac Pro for some visual synchronicity. A unique hinge mechanism allows for height and angle adjustments and a 90-degree portrait-mode orientation.
The contrast ratio of the Pro Display XDR is one million to one. In case you aren't an expert in monitors, that puts the new hardware in the class of what's called "reference displays." These displays are insanely expensive tools (think mid-five-digits), used primarily in high-end production shops. For those in the video production industry, the Pro Display XDR's $4,999 price tag probably sounds like a fire sale.
The new hardware may be worth every penny, but it definitely costs a lot of pennies. We'll know for sure when both machines arrive this December.
Pompeo was riding high— until the Ukraine mess exploded 13 smart STEM toys for the techie kids in your life The Icelandic facility where bitcoin is mined Inside Apple’s high-flying bid to become a streaming giant The untold story of Olympic Destroyer, the most deceptive hack in history 👁 A safer way to protect your data ; plus, check out the latest news on AI 🎧 Things not sounding right? Check out our favorite wireless headphones , soundbars , and Bluetooth speakers Senior Writer and Reviewer X Reviews Editor X Topics apple Mac Scott Gilbertson Scott Gilbertson Reece Rogers Carlton Reid Boone Ashworth Virginia Heffernan Boone Ashworth Boone Ashworth WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
