Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Every Style of Beer Explained About Released on 08/18/2020 When you look at the majority of the beer produced around the world today, and a lot of it falls into the categories of things like American lager, American light lager, international pale lager.
All of those styles are descended from this one beer.
[rock music] Hi, I'm Pat Fahey, master cicerone and content director for the cicerone certification program.
And this is each and every beer style.
In the wine world, experts are known as sommeliers and are certified by the court of master sommeliers.
The Cicerone certification program serves a similar purpose in the beer world, educating both professionals and enthusiasts.
One of the most important topics that we cover in all of our materials is beer styles.
And the style guidelines are usually created primarily for the purpose of judging beers in a competition setting.
So we're going to work within those guidelines.
So we're going to be covering a lot of different classic styles, but we'll also talk about some of those variations at the end that brewers use to produce the wide landscape of beers that you see today.
I broke those styles down into eight different groups, primarily based on the flavors that you find in those beers.
So we're kicking things off with multi lagers, we've got 19 of them to cover.
We're gonna see a huge range of different types of malt flavor.
Malt flavor is commonly described as like bakery flavors, because a lot of the sorts of flavors that you get in different types of malts are things that you might see in different types of baked goods.
So on the pale end, you might see things like bread dough or crackers, or like freshly baked bread.
And as it ranges and gets darker and darker, we go through flavors like caramel, nutty, toffee, on into chocolate and espresso, and really, really dark malty beers.
We're gonna see kind of the whole range of those flavors here.
And we're gonna find that the color of many of these styles really dictates the sorts of multi flavors that we're gonna see.
So during that final phase of the malting process, the grain is first dried and then the maltser will apply some amount of additional heat to the grain to sort of determine what flavors they want that grain to have.
So to kick things off in the multi lagers group, we're gonna be talking about American and international lagers, and we're gonna start with a style that's one of the most widely available beer styles in the world.
That's American light lager.
Think of bud light, Coors light, Miller light.
It's a style that's relatively light in its overall flavor profile.
American lager was developed before the light lager style came into being.
Light lagers kind of came around in like the mid 1970s.
But at this point, the light lager style is a lot more popular of the two of them.
They both share a lot in terms of production processes, though, a lot of times they're gonna be brewed using either rice or corn in addition to barley.
And that addition of rice or corn is used to lighten both the color, the malt flavor and the body of those beers.
One of the reasons that both American light lager and American lager have been so successful is that they don't have a lot in the way of identifiable flavors going on.
They're relatively inoffensive beers designed to appeal to a broad swath of people.
The next subgroup is a family of international lagers and they're differentiated based on their color.
We have international pale lager, international Amber lager and international dark lager.
International pale lager is far and away the most popular member of the group think beers like Heineken, Corona, Peroni, Asahi, Super Dry.
Now these are beers that look a lot like American lagers.
They're usually a little bit beefier.
They're oftentimes not gonna be made with corn or rice.
They could be all malt beverages, which is gonna give them a little bit more body and a little bit more flavor.
They also are potentially bitter to a slightly higher level, but still very approachable beers, easy drinking, widely enjoyed by people all around the world.
So both international Amber lager and international dark lager are not seeing quite as often for international Amber lager maybe the most common example you'd see would be Dosickeys Amber.
On the international dark lager side, you're looking at something like a Shiner Bock.
International Amber lager, usually gonna have a little bit more malt character and to get that Amber color.
And that's gonna give you maybe just a touch of Carmel or toast flavor.
International dark lager, on the other hand, you might expect that that would have even more malt character, but a lot of times that color is going to be the result of some caramel coloring.
Oftentimes just like a colored version of an international pale lager.
Then the last member of this sort of American lager family is a beer called cream ale, which as the name implies is not actually a lager.
Kind of snuck it in here in part just because the flavor profile is so similar to what you see in American lagers.
Cream ales are often formulated a lot like a normal strength American lager.
They're just going to be fermented with ale yeast.
And typically it's gonna be done in a way where you still don't get very much in the way the fermentation flavor.
The next group that we're gonna cover is a group of multi European lagers that are all kind of normal ish alcohol strength, like the four and a half to five and a half percent alcohol range.
And while the last group was a little bit tighter in terms of the flavors that we saw from the different styles, this one is gonna cover a broader range of different malt flavors and characteristics.
First up, we've got Munch Helles, a pale lager style from Germany and with German styles, knowing just a little bit of German can honestly help you understand a fair amount of the basics of any style.
You look at the name of this beer, Munich means a beer from Munich Helles means light or pale in color.
So any beer you see from Germany that has like hell or Helles in the name is gonna be a pale beer.
Munich Helles today is the most popular everyday drinking beer that you find across Bavaria.
You see people hoisting huge steins of pale golden beer.
It's usually gonna be a leader of Helles.
It's just an awesome drinking beer.
Next up is Kellerbier, Keller means seller.
And it's a reference to the fact that these beers are oftentimes just finished fermenting.
So you get a beer that's a little bit younger and is typically unfiltered when it's served.
There are different variations of the style, but one of the more common is just a pale Keller beer, which is basically an unfiltered version of Munich Kelles.
The next two styles Marzen and Festbier are very closely tied together and they're related to kind of the traditional Oktoberfest celebration.
So back in the early 1800s, a crown Prince Ludwig was getting married.
They brought a lot of people together prior to this wedding and through just a huge ragger of a beer fest, people had such a good time doing it that they're like, you know what? We should do this every year, forever.
And that became Oktoberfest.
Originally, the beer that was served at Oktoberfest was this style of beer called Merzten, Merzten means March like the month of March.
And this was a stronger, somewhat dark beer that was brewed in March, typically would have been cellared throughout the warmer months of the year, and then enjoyed in October or late September.
So it naturally sort of sinked up with this Oktoberfest celebration.
However, over time, consumer tastes have sort of shifted to favor beers that are a bit paler in color.
So today when you see Oktoberfest's beer being served at the Oktoberfest celebration, they're usually pretty pale in color.
That style is usually referred to as Fest beer.
The Vienna lager style was developed in a similar timeframe as Merzten was kind of like the early to mid 1800s.
And as honestly a pretty similar beer in terms of its makeup, it's maybe a little bit lighter in color and a little bit less malty balanced, slightly more towards bitterness, but otherwise it's a pretty similar beer style.
The Vienna lager style was developed around the same time as the Merzten style, just in Vienna instead of Bavaria, ironically enough Vienna lager doesn't really exist in Vienna to an appreciable extent these days.
You're far more likely to find it in the US or even in Mexico.
Next up is Munich Dunkel.
And going back to sort of our translation of German words, Dunkel is the German word for dark.
Any beer that you see that's labeled as a Dunkel or has Dunkel somewhere on the label has kind of darker toastier pretzel like bread crust, kind of malt flavors to go along with it.
The easiest way to think of Munich Dunkel is kind of as a dark version of a Munich Kelles.
Historically Dunkel actually came long before Munich Kelles did.
When you look at beer history in the grand scheme of things, really like pale golden beer is a relatively recent invention.
The first widely available pale beers didn't come into being until early to mid 1800s.
Prior to the 20th century, Munich Dunkel would have been that every day, drinking beer for the citizens of Bavaria.
Continuing with our lesson on German color words, Schearz, is the German word for black.
So Schwartz beer literally translates to black beer.
It's basically just a darker version of a Munich Dunkel.
Usually not gonna see like tons of overt, heavily roasted character.
Like you wouldn't have stout things like coffee and espresso, but it'll have kind of additional light chocolate flavors.
In addition to the toasty notes that you find in a typical Munich Dunkel.
The final pair of this group are a couple of multi lagers from the Czech Republic.
We have Czech Amber lager and Czech dark lager.
Both of these styles are honestly pretty difficult to come by outside of the Czech Republic, and even can be a bit hard to find if you're in the Czech Republic, but if you are able to get your hands on them, they're delightful beers.
Both of these Czech lagers combined sort of a rich malt profile with a pronounced level of bitterness and a bit of spicy hop aroma.
The last subgroup of this multilocular family is the Bock beers, which itself is a group of four higher strength, German lager styles.
Now our German language skills do fail us a little bit here.
The direct translation of Bock is goat, and that's not really where the name comes from.
The name is thought to be basically a linguistic corruption of beer from the city of Einbeck.
However, Bock does carry a legal connotation in Germany, beers that are labeled as Bocks are usually going to be a bit stronger than your average beer.
At the very least usually gonna be about 6% alcohol, but some of the members of the Bock family can range all the way up to 14% alcohol.
The first member of the family we're gonna talk about is Dunkels Bock, as we already talked about Dunkel means dark.
So this is basically a strong dark lager.
Today, it's one of the least seen members of the family.
Next up is Helles Bock, which is a pale strong lager.
A Helles Bock also sometimes referred to as Mai Bock, Mai translating to the month of may and Helles Bock, or Mai Bock is a common spring seasonal beer in Germany.
Helles Bock looks a lot like a stronger version of a Munich Kelles, though it does usually feature a little bit of hop flavor and aroma, but given it's rather high strength, it's actually a pretty refreshing beer.
Doppelbock today is essentially a higher strength version of a regular Dunkel's Bock and of all of these Bock sub styles.
It's the most widely available style.
The original Doppelbock beer was a beer from the pollener brewery in Germany known as Salvator.
They still make that beer today.
To this day, a lot of breweries name, their Dopplebock's with the suffix A-T-O-R to sort of imply a connection to that Salvator style.
So you'll usually see that as part of their name.
Final style of the Bock family is Eisbock and conveniently enough Eis, E-I-S in German translates to ice in English.
Basically Eisbock is a Doppelbock that has been frozen to concentrate its flavor.
It's water freezes at a higher temperature than alcohol does.
So as you cool beer down, you'll be able to remove some of that frozen water, leaving you with a more highly flavored, more intense high alcohol product.
Following this freezing process, you're left with an incredibly potent beer.
Eisbok's can range all the way up to 14% alcohol.
And they oftentimes will feature kind of like dark fruit or dried fruit notes.
Things like Raisin, prune or fig even.
This group of hoppy loggers isn't broken up into multiple sub families.
All of these styles are sort of derivatives of the original Pilsner style and that Pilsner style is unquestionably one of the most influential beer styles in the history of beer.
So the first style that we're going to talk about is Czech premium pale lager.
The style name for this beer used to be Bohemian Pilsner, but was actually changed recently for a few reasons.
One Pilsner is a German word, so it doesn't really make sense for the Czech style to carry a German name, but two in the Czech Republic, Pilsner is not a style of beer.
Pilsner is a brand.
You may have heard of the beer Pilsner Urqell.
That is this original Pilsner style, but in the Czech Republic, that's the only beer that carries the name of Pilsner.
Now Pilsner Urqell was first brewed in late 1842, and upon appearing on the scene, it totally transformed beer across all of continental Europe.
The beer combined, several kind of unique or novel characteristics.
It was brewed with very soft water from the town of Pilsen, which allowed for a beer that had a higher than normal level of bitterness, but kind of like a soft pleasant quality of bitterness that people really enjoyed.
It also was one of the first, truly pale golden beers produced, leveraging new advances in malting technology that for the first time allowed pale malts to be produced affordably on a large scale.
When you look at the majority of the beer produced around the world today, a lot of it falls into the categories of things like American lager, American light lager, international pale lager.
All of those styles are descended from this one vehicle.
Continuing on a similar theme, we have Czech pale lager, which is kind of like a lighter version of the check premium pale lager.
It's a little bit lower in malt flavor, a little bit lower in body.
A little lower in alcohol content.
The German Pils style is probably the closest direct descendant of the Czech premium pale lager style.
This was basically German brewers copying the Czech Pilsner style to try to produce a similar beer using the ingredients that they had available to them.
At this point today, you're far more likely to find brands of German Pils than you will, of brands of Czech premium pale outside of Pilsner or Kell.
On the whole, German Pils is a really refreshing and crushable style for those of you not acquainted with the term crushable is like drinkable, but better.
The first iterations of the American lager style, which is so prevalent today were made by German immigrants to the US in the mid 1800s.
So like Czech premium pale lager very directly gave rise to the German Pils style, German Pils, very directly sort of birthed the American lager style.
Next up is German leicht beer, which is basically German light though, compared to our American light beer, it's a significantly more assertive beer.
German Helles export beer falls somewhere between a German pils and a Munich Helles.
Typically has a little bit more bitterness than a Helles would, but a little bit more body than you'd expect to see in a pils.
Many of the classic examples of this style come from the city of Dortmund and the style actually used to be called Dortmunder export.
Kolsch is another example of an ale that I snuck into a lager category, but because of the way that the fermentation is handled, Kolsch usually doesn't have tons and tons fermentation character.
A lot of times it's described as sort of like the ale version of a German pils.
The Kolsch style comes from the German city of Cologne.
The German name for that city is Koln, and Kolsch literally means of Koln.
The service tradition of the style in the city of Colgne is incredibly unique and a lot of fun if you've ever been or you ever get the chance to go.
It's just an awesome experience.
Kolsch is served in these little rod shaped glasses.
They're 200 milliliters so just over six ounces, which obviously does not take very long for you to drink through.
But the way that it's served is that servers run around with trays full of Kolsch.
And as soon as you finish one glass, they replace you with a fresh glass and just make a tick on your coaster and they just keep going and going and going until you put your coaster over the top of your glass, telling them that it's time to stop, even though Kolsch is only moderate in alcohol content like four and a half percent.
And it's served in small glasses, given the ease of consuming them and the rate at which they're replaced.
It's very easy to be conversing with friends and looked out and see like 10 or 15 tick marks on your costers.
Very fun, somewhat dangerous, but always a good time.
Last in the group is pre-prohibition logger, which is a historical style that you don't see a lot of commercial examples today, but it's kind of an interesting style because it represents the link between German pils and American lager.
Pre-prohibition lager approximates the beer that German immigrants would have been brewing when they first came to the US in the mid 1800s.
And were trying to recreate the German pils style using ingredients that they had available to them here.
Now, prohibition through the prohibition of alcohol consumption, obviously put a lot of breweries out of business, which in and of itself would have been pretty bad for the beer industry, but it came at a pretty bad time.
Around the same time of prohibition, we had a couple of world wars.
We had the great depression.
So all of those sorts of events together conspired to really decimate the brewing industry.
We went from a place where there were thousands of breweries in the country to having less than a hundred.
By the time you got to like the 60s and 70s.
As a result of all of these events, what we saw happen was beer before prohibition was a lot more varied.
There were a lot more different styles, a lot more flavorful beers, beer beyond like World War II.
We were kind of in American lager territory where most beer tasted exactly the same.
There wasn't a lot of variety.
It wasn't a very exciting thing to drink.
It was just a commodity product.
In addition to prohibition that really shaped that was just kind of like the general trends and consumer products that occurred in the 50s.
When you had a lot of people moving from urban centers to suburban areas, a lot of people spending less time in bars and more time at home.
It's kind of like the TV dinner era.
And so at that same time across consumer products, not just with alcohol, you had a move from smaller batch, more kind of like mum and pop products to like mass produced homogenized products and happened in every industry.
You look at toothpaste, like there's how many toothpaste brands can you name? How many laundry detergent brands can you name? There are just a few and they're all relatively similar.
What really impressed people in the 50s was not this is a really flavorful thing.
They're like, it's really cool that I can go anywhere in the country and I can get something that's exactly the same.
So it was kind of that mentality that shaped all consumer products in that era.
And it was more kind of a move in food and beverage and eventually other things towards artismal products.
You can point to Starbucks as sort of the rise of people going from coffee is just the thing I drink for caffeine to like coffee is the thing I drank for certain flavors.
That sort of lined up with people getting into craft beer or craft spirits, or all of those things, beer developing when it did was a broader dynamic of people wanting variety in all of the products that they were looking at.
Due to the way that ales are fermented, it typically will show some amount of flavor derived from their fermentation.
Usually a little bit of fruity character.
All of the beers in this group lead with malt flavor though some of the beers also have significant levels of either hot flavor or fermentation derived flavor.
To structure this group, we went with beers that range from kind of pale to brown in color.
First style here is dark mild, which is sort of like your classic multi British pub beer, a very highly sessionable beer, which is a term that's used to describe beers that are lower in alcohol that you can drink several of over the course of a session.
Goes great alongside a lot of pub fair.
Like I love drinking dark mild with classic bangers and mash.
British brown ale is balanced a lot like a dark mild though it's a bit stronger in strength maybe have around four to 5% alcohol content.
Think something like a Newcastle brown ale.
Also in the family of round British ales, we have the London brown ale style.
It's at this point considered a historical style.
There are very few examples of it available.
English Barley wines are often considered to be a malt showcase, with really robust notes of caramel, toffee, but also like molasses trickle, maybe some dark fruit character like plum, prune or fig.
They are really robust and interesting beers.
In most cases, barley wines are going to be the strongest products produced by a given brewery.
And they're usually also going to be vintage dated.
In part, because due to their high alcohol content, they can age pretty well.
Next step, in this category, we have the sort of generic British strong ale style, which serves as sort of bit of a catch all for a lot of higher alcohol English, malted beers.
Compared to barley wine, it's usually going to be a little bit lower in alcohol in sort of like the six to 8% range, rather than eight to 12% like barley wine.
Last among the British malted ales, we have the old ale style, which is similar in strength to the British strong ale, typically features some amount of aged character, which can go in a lot of different directions.
However, like British strong ale.
This is a style that allows for a pretty wide range of interpretations.
It's not the most popular of styles.
So you don't see tons of examples of the style on the market these days.
We've got five different styles that fit in the subgroup of Scottish and Irish, malted ales, and the first three of them, Scottish light, Scottish heavy and Scottish export are all very, very closely related.
These three styles are very similar in their flavor profiles and are primarily just separated by different levels of alcohol content and consequently different levels of intensity.
The light is usually somewhere between 2.5 and 3% alcohol.
Scottish heavy will be maybe three to 4%.
And Scottish export might be four to 6% alcohol.
Scottish light and heavy are rather challenging to find outside of Scotland and honestly are even somewhat difficult to find in Scotland.
The most commonly available beer of this style that you'll see out on the market is Belheven Scottish ale, which is a classic example of the Scottish export style.
Then we have, Wee heavy which is kind of like an amped up version of the other Scottish ales.
Wee heavy has similar flavors, but can range from like six to 10% alcohol.
So the flavor is a lot more intense.
One thing that is notable about these four Scottish styles, some people sometimes think that they should be made with a peated malt.
Peat is kind of that like really intense, smoky character that you get in certain types of scotch whiskey.
However, peated malt is used exclusively in whiskey production.
It's not typically used by Scottish beer brewers.
So those sorts of flavors are not appropriate in these styles.
Heading over to Ireland, we have Irish red ale, which is sort of a light refreshing Irish ale.
A lot of beers that feature sort of a reddish hue are often going to be produced with a specific type of malt known as caramel malt.
Irish red ale sometimes we'll use caramel but more often will get its red color from a very, very small amount of roast barley.
The ingredient that makes beers like Irish stout, black and heavily roasting character.
We have four different American malty ale styles that cover a pretty wide range of different characteristics.
And we're starting off with American blonde ale.
As the name implies, American blonde ale is a golden pale colored beer.
American blonde ale is meant to be a really approachable beer.
And in a lot of cases serves as sort of a transitional beer for people moving from beers like American lagers into beers that have a bit more flavor.
From a flavor perspective, American wheat beer is pretty similar to American blond ale.
So as the name implies, it's made with some amount of malted wheat.
Once again, this is relatively straight forward beer is a popular style with a lot of early American craft breweries as a way to move people beyond American lager beers that they might have been more familiar with.
In the 90s, a lot of pioneers of the American craft beer movement had flagship beers that were of the American wheat style.
You can look at Goose Island with 312, Widmer with their half of whites and there's two really prominent examples.
For a pretty dramatic change of pace.
We jump to American brown ale.
American brown ale is sort of like the American take on the British brown ale style.
In a lot of times when American brewers adapt a style from somewhere else, they're going to make a beer that is usually more aggressive in some way.
In my opinion, American brown ale is a pretty under appreciated style.
I have a pretty deep love for the style.
It's makes for a really fantastic companion with a wide range of different foods.
I wish that there were more of them out there.
With wheat wine we have a unique specialty beer that's kind of made in the same vein as barley wine.
Though it also includes a pretty significant portion of wheat malt.
The style is rather high in alcohol and drinks, kind of like an amped up version of an American wheat beer.
Next step, we've got a pair of malty ales from continental Europe, one from Belgium and one from France.
Most classic Belgium beer styles are dominated by yeast derived flavors, but Belgium pale ale is pretty malt driven.
It doesn't have as much yeast character as most other Belgian styles.
Honestly, Belgian pale are kind of hard to come by these days.
There are two main producers in Belgium, Daconic and Palm, and those are two of the best and potentially only examples of the style that you can find.
Biere de garde is a French specialty.
It's produced in the Northeast of France, kind of along the border with Belgium.
And it's an interesting style in that it's produced in three different color bands.
You have blonde biere de garde, Amber biere de garde and brown biere de garde.
Kentucky common as a historical style.
It's very rarely seen commercially today and the beer drinks a lot like a dark version of a cream ale.
And then last in the category we have Sahti.
Sahti is a very unusual finished style.
And I actually had a hard time pinning exactly where I wanted to put this one because it has so much going on in it.
The driving flavors of the style, the most prominent one being Juniper.
Sahti uses Juniper berries as a flavoring, and the other place where people might be familiar with the Juniper flavor is as sort of the main flavor in gin.
So Sahti has kind of a gin like Piney, herbal, floral character to it that really drives the flavor profile of the style.
Next up, we've got a slate of 12 roasty dark ales.
This group covers a number of different porters and stouts.
All of which are brown or black in color and feature some amount of roast flavor.
Originally stout grew out of Porter as a stronger version of Porter, but today that's not necessarily the case.
English Porter was a tremendously popular style in the UK, in the 1700s and had kind of a unique production process.
At the time, it was a beer that was made as a blend of both young and old ales.
So some of the beer would have been aged in large wooden vats where it would develop acidity and kind of like funky characteristics.
Then that would be blended with younger beer to produce the finished Porter style.
English Potter today does not reflect that process.
It's just kind of like a dark ale style.
Every Porter and stout, some stout currently in existence can be traced back to this one style of beer.
The majority of the beer made in the world is made with four specific ingredients, malt, hops, yeast, and water, and through using different varieties of those ingredients and manipulating the way that those ingredients are used.
Brewers are able to achieve a tremendous variety of different flavor profiles in their beers.
Today in a lot of modern styles, brewers may augment that list of ingredients.
Perhaps adding things as run of the mill is like chocolate or coffee or certain fruits to really weird ingredients like lobsters or zebra mussles or other shellfish.
By and large, the majority of beer achieves this wide palette of flavors using just those four ingredients.
The heyday of Porter in the UK was very much the 1700s.
It sort of declined in popularity over the course of the 1800s, and then basically died out in the 20th century.
However, the Porter style was sort of resurrected by American craft brewers, looking for styles to experiment with.
Baltic Porter is another take on the Porter style in this case, brewed in countries that sort of surround the Baltic sea.
Some of the more prominent commercial examples come from like Sweden, Russia, and Poland.
Baltic Porter stands out of this group in that it's actually usually made as a lager rather than an ale in part due to the colder climates of the countries where this beer is typically produced.
At the time when this beer was originally being made, it would have been easier for them to do a lager fermentation than an ale fermentation.
Baltic porters will usually be anywhere from six to 10% alcohol.
Lastly, we have pre-prohibition Porter.
Pre-prohibition Porter is another historical style, not very widely available today.
Honestly, hard to find in commercial settings.
It's a recreation of what Porter might've looked like around the time of the revolutionary war in the US and at that point, it was very much an American brewers take on the English Porter style.
In the mid 1700s, when Porter was extremely popular, brewers didn't have a lot of options available to them when it came to making different styles of beer.
Ingredient availability was an issue.
You would have maybe one or two different malts to choose from.
As a result, the primary way for brewers to expand their offerings was for them to brew beers of different strengths.
Basically to use different amounts of ingredients in the beers that they brewed.
Stout grew out of this tradition as a stronger version of Porter.
And all of these different levels of stouts were basically differing alcoholic strengths of beers that resembled Porter.
Today the key differences between each of the stouts sub styles often comes down to the balance of the beer and the strength of the beer.
First up in the stout family, we have Irish stout, which is probably the best known stout sub style as a result of the widespread popularity of Guinness draft.
I actually think that Irish stout is one of the most misunderstood beer styles out there.
People look at this beer and they see that it's dark.
And so there are a lot of assumptions that come with that.
People think that because it's dark, it's gonna be full bodied and high in alcohol and assertively flavored.
And basically none of those things are true.
And as a result, it's actually like a pretty easy drinking beer.
Irish stout gets it dark color, and it's heavily roasted flavor from the use of roasted barley, which is kind of the signature ingredient in that style.
Another unique aspect of the Irish stout style is that it's often served on nitro, which means it's served using nitrogen instead of just carbon dioxide.
The inclusion of nitrogen is what creates that sort of cascading bubbles effects that you see when a beer like Guinness is poured, and it also has some pretty distinct impacts on the flavor experience of the beer.
It ends up reducing the perceived bitterness of the beer and also gives it kind of like a smooth creamy texture, just because you encounter that really creamy head first, when you drank the beer.
The next two styles, Irish, extra stout and foreign extra stout are rather similar to Irish stout in terms of their balance.
The main differences here come down to the alcohol content and consequently, the sort of the overall intensity of the style.
Irish extra stout is gonna be a little bit stronger than an Irish stout.
Maybe five to 6% in alcohol.
Foreign extra is stronger still, maybe six to 8% alcohol.
The tropical stout sub style is descended from some of those export type stouts that would have been sent to tropical locations, such as the Caribbean, or even like parts of India.
The style is similar in strength to a foreign, extra stout, but the balance is pretty different.
It's usually a lot sweeter.
American stout is the American take on the foreign extra stout style.
And like most American interpretations of styles, it got made a little bit more intense, tending more towards kind of that burnt ashy, robust espresso flavor.
Imperial stout is the strongest of all of the stout sub styles.
The style guidelines say that it can go up to 12% alcohol, but in truth, you see some variations of the style that go higher.
I can think of Imperial stouts up around 15 or even 18% alcohol.
In the late 1700s, these really, really high octane stouts were very popular with the Russian Imperial court as an export beer.
And so a lot of brewers in the UK took to naming their strongest stout beers as Imperial stouts or Russian Imperial stouts.
Interestingly enough, this is where we get the word Imperial from, as it is applied to beer styles.
You'll see, on beer labels, Imperial Porter or Imperial IPA, Imperial Pilsner.
That just means a stronger version of the style.
And that's tied back to kind of the history of Imperial stout.
Usually meant to be a sipper, definitely a beer you can sit down and enjoy over a period of time.
Imperial stouts also are really common candidate for barrel aging, particularly spirit barrel aging.
Some of the first beers aged in barrels were Imperial stouts aged in bourbon barrels.
And that trend is very, very popular today.
Our last two stouts sweet stout and oatmeal stout are sort of moderate strength stouts that are distinguished primarily by the of unique ingredients.
Sweet stout doesn't necessarily have to have anything unique added to it, but oftentimes is going to be brewed with the addition of lactose, in which case it's specifically referred to as a milk stout, the reason why brewers use lactose in these beers rather than any other number of sugars is that yeast cannot ferment lactose.
Yeast are, in essence, lactose intolerant.
By adding lactose that sugar remains in the beer through fermentation and gives you a sweeter fuller bodied finished beer.
Oatmeal stout, as you might imagine, is made with the addition of oats.
And interestingly enough, the oats not necessarily used for their flavor contribution, oats will sometimes give these beers a little bit of a nutty characteristic, but the bigger impact is that usually oats will give beer sort of a luscious velvety texture, which is what brewers are typically after when they use oats to make this style.
The hoppy ale category includes 21 different sub styles and covers a wide range of hoppy ales from various regions around the world.
Now, depending upon how they're used hops can impart either bitterness or aroma and flavor to beer.
Hops grown in different parts of the world have different flavor characteristics.
Our first group of hoppy ales are the British hoppy ales.
And we start things off with English IPA, sort of the beer that kicked off a lot of these other styles.
Now the English IPA style is the original IPA style, and it comes with a pretty widely known story that unfortunately is not terribly grounded in reality.
IPA stands for India pale ale.
And the story goes that when the British were colonizing India, you had people working over there, soldiers, et cetera.
They were very thirsty and beer is being shipped over there, but it was all going bad in transit.
And so the brewers had to develop this hoppy, high alcohol style in order to slake the thirst of all of the people over in India.
However, the real story is a little bit less romantic.
It turns out that at the time brewers were sending all sorts of beer, including Porter and other pale ales over to India, and it was making it there just fine.
In terms of the high hopping rate, brewers at the time knew that beer that was more highly hopped would keep longer.
So anything that was getting shipped to India would be highly hopped due to the fact that it had to survive this long voyage before it was consumed.
And lastly, with regards to the high alcohol content, most India pale ales clock in around six to 7% alcohol.
That's maybe high by today's standards, but the British ales of the day we're often between like five and 10% alcohol.
So they really would have been just like moderate strength beers.
What is true about the story however, is that this pale bitter beer did become very popular in India and eventually became popular back in the UK.
At which point it developed that name, India pale ale.
As has been the case with many of these styles, India pale ales popularity has sort of ebbed and flowed over the years.
So the India pale ale of the mid 1800s is not too close to the IPA that we know and enjoy today.
However, the India pale ale style did spawn a number of pale bitter styles and sort of laid the foundation for most of the pale bitter beers that today exist in the UK and the US.
The next three sub styles are a group of English pale ales known as bitters.
They're direct descendants of the IPA style.
As with the Scottish ales, these three styles are primarily distinguished just based on their alcohol content, going in order from low strength to high strength, you have ordinary bitter, best bitter and strong bitter.
Of the three sub styles, you're most likely to encounter beers in the best bitter sub style.
One of the more prominent examples being London pride from Forsberg.
Lastly, we have the British golden ale style, which is paler in color than the other members of this family.
And so consequently features less malt flavor aroma.
Next, we have a group of three average strength, American hoppy ales.
And we kick things off with the American pale ale style.
American pale ale is sort of the original American craft beer style.
Now in the early days of the craft beer movement or the late 70s and early 80s, brewers were looking for inspiration.
And oftentimes they turned to classic styles made in the UK.
A lot of early American craft brewers learned how to brew from English home brewing texts.
So doing like others before them had done, like we saw with German brewers trying to recreate Pilsner in America, we have American brewers trying to recreate English bitters, but using American ingredients, classic American hops tend to feature a lot of citrus flavor notes like grapefruit and Tangerine, as well as some kind of like piney resiny sorts of flavors.
It doesn't get quite as much love as it deserves these days, but like it's such an awesome and amazing style.
And still what I go back to all the time.
The American Amber ale style is basically a slightly darker take on the American parallel style.
Typically brewers would use a little bit of caramel malt in making this beer.
So you get a little bit of kind of caramel toffee malt flavor, and then the hops are usually dialed back just a hair, but otherwise it's very similar beer to American pale ale.
Lastly, we have the California common style, which is a rather unique American innovation exemplified by the anchor steam brand.
Originally this beer was known as steam beer and in California in the mid 1800s through the early 1900s, there were a vast number of different breweries making steam beers.
However, they all died out one by one.
And in the end, only the anchor Bruin company was left standing.
At which point they took a trademark out on the name of steam beer.
The main thing that makes this style unique is that it's actually fermented with lager yeast.
However, it's fermented with lager yeast at higher temperatures.
So it ends up still giving you some of those fruity fermentation flavors.
As a result, it's more or less just kind of like a unique take on an American Amber ale.
Next up, we have the giant category of IPA sub styles.
There are nine different styles that sort of fit under this IPA umbrella and brewers are constantly experimenting and trying new things.
It's entirely possible that by the time this video comes out, there will be another IPA sub style in existence.
The core style of the IPA group is the American IPA.
American brewers of kind of the early 90s interpretation of that historic English IPA style, more hop aroma, and more bitterness, more alcohol, just like more everything.
One of the things that keeps the IPA style and really the whole IPA family fresh and exciting is that hop breeders and growers continue to release new varieties of hops that bring sort of an additional palette of flavors to brewers' arsenals.
At this point, the American IPA style has been exported all across the world.
Today, American IPA's, are significantly more popular with brewers in the UK than English IPA's are, you also can find American IPAs throughout Asia and central and South America where they call it IPA.
So very, very versatile style, extremely popular one that I'm sure many viewers are familiar with.
Then we have double IPA.
The easiest way to think of double IPA is like American IPA, but more, there was definitely a period of time, probably in the 2000s and early 2010s where breweries kind of were pushing to see who could make the most bitter and most intense beer.
Double IPAs are definitely a product of that time.
And that sort of like hops arms race.
Now the new England IPA style sometimes referred to as hazy or juicy IPA is a style that really only came around in like the last five years or so, but came into popularity very, very quickly and has come to become like a dominant force in the beer space.
The calling card for these styles is their hazy appearance, a lot of times these beers are so hazy that they're almost kind of opaque, might even look like a glass of orange juice in some cases, and really favors kind of what people term like juicy hot flavors.
So think things like orange juice, mango, pineapple, kind of these really robust tropical flavors.
And then we have whole host of different specialty IPA categories.
The first group that we talk about is sort of color variations on the IPA style.
Most classic IPAs are either like pale golden or amber in color.
We have several different variations that play on different colored versions of IPA, The four that exists are white IPA, red IPA, brown IPA and black IPA.
So in the case of white IPA, we have wheat being used, in the case of red IPA, oftentimes you're gonna see some amount of caramel malt use to give it that reddish hue, a little bit of sweet caramel flavor.
Brown IPAs will use some more heavily toasted malts think like a chocolate malt, which will give it toasty brown bread, or maybe even like chocolate flavors.
Black IPS are going to use deep bitter black malts.
Belgian IPA involves a variation on the way that the beer is fermented.
Belgian new strains tend to be more characterful than American new strains producing a lot more like fruity characteristics and giving it an interesting blend of fermentation characteristics and hop flavors.
The last IPA of the group is rye IPA, which unsurprisingly is made with rye.
One common misconception that people have is that ride brings this sort of spicy Caraway flavor.
And that misconception exists because rye bread is almost always flavored with Caraway.
That's not the case though.
It's more along the lines of like the difference between bourbon whiskey or a rye based whiskey.
American barley wine is the American take on the English barley wine style.
American barley wines are usually like bracingly bitter and have a fair amount of hop flavored aroma.
These are seriously intense beers, definitely sipping beers.
American strong ale is a bit of a catch all category for various Imperial versions of hoppy styles.
Think like anything labeled like an Imperial red ale or an imperial amber, something in that category.
One early and well known example of this style was Stone's arrogant bastard ale.
It was just like a really aggressive high alcohol hoppy beer.
Next step, we have a German bitter ale talking about altbier, which is indigenous to the town of Dusseldorf.
And this style, at least the production of the style has a lot in common with the way that Kolsch is made.
Altbier is typically amber in color was sort of like toasty bready malt flavors.
The altbier style is honestly kind of challenging to find outside of Dusseldorf.
However, if you are ever in Dusseldorf, the four traditional alt beer breweries are all located in and around the Alt stop the old part of the city and are all within about a 15 minute walk of one another.
Last step in the hoppy ale category, we have Australian sparkling ale, Australian sparkling ale is a unique style.
Typically only found in Australia.
And it's really typified by the products from the Cooper's brewery.
It's a little bit like an English bitter, but typically going to be paler in color with less malt flavor and significantly higher carbonation.
Fruity and or spicy ales.
You've got 12 total styles to cover here.
And we're now moving into beers that are dominated by their fermentation flavors.
It's worth noting, for the most part, the beers in this category are not actually made using fruit or spices.
These flavors are coming entirely from the fermentation.
Styles in these groups use very expressive yeast strains that tend to produce high levels of a group of flavor compounds known as esters, which calmly give beer fruity characteristics think like banana, apple, pear, sometimes peach.
Some of the strains used for beers in this group can also produce a type of flavor compound known as phenols.
Those phenolic flavor compounds usually give beers spicy sorts of characteristics along the lines of like clove, nutmeg or white or black peppercorn.
Our first group of styles is the German hefeweizens type styles.
So there are a few words worth knowing the translation of.
Heifer translates to yeast.
Then the other two words that are commonly used in association with this style are either weizen which translates to wheat or weiss, which translates to white.
So the first member of this family is the weiss beer style.
And weiss beer goes by a few different names.
Sometimes you'll see it labeled as hefeweizen, sometimes as half of vice beer.
Brewers of this style use a very special yeast strain that gives the beer a lot of banana and clove flavor characteristics.
These beers are also very, very highly carbonated.
When you see them served, they're usually served in these tall vase like glasses that allow for two or three inches of foam to form on top.
Next up is Dunkel's weissbier.
It has a lot of similar fermentation flavors to weissbier.
So still that banana clove profile, but also gets the addition of some amount of a darker colored malt.
Lastly, in this category, we have a beer that's not truly a weissbier.
This is Rogenbier.
It's a beer made with rye rather than wheat.
It's more or less a rye based take on the Dunkel's weissbier style.
[guitar music] The first one of the bunch witbier is actually made with spices, though it does also usually have a character full fermentation as well.
Belgian witbier is usually spiced with both coriander and orange peel, which gives it sort of citrusy floral notes.
This specific style basically died out in the 1950s and would have been probably totally lost to the world where it not for this one guy, Pierre Celis who founded the Hoegaarden brewery through his production of this style.
He sort of slowly brought it back to prominence.
And today it's a popular beer style, among both small and large breweries.
It's just a beautiful, easy drink of beer.
Saison is a really exciting yeast driven style that allows for a really broad range of interpretations and many people think of Saison as sort of the quintessential farmhouse style.
When you see a beer that's labeled sort of like farmhouse, oftentimes it will fall into this Saison category.
[guitar music] So the brand named Duvel actually translates to devil and some people surmise that the name is a reference to how the beer can kind of sneak up on you.
If you have a couple of these sitting down and aren't paying close attention, you might find yourself in a different place than you intended.
As a result, many of the other brands within this style that are produced today, bear illusions to the devil.
You get names such as Brigand or Lucifer, Beelzebub.
So you see a lot of devil references when it comes to [folk music drowns out conversation] Lastly, in the category of sort of these fruity spicy ales, we have a series of four different monastic beers that are also all typically made in Belgium.
Now these beers feature a numerical naming system.
The style names are Trappist single, Belgium double, Belgian triple, and then the top one is technically called Belgian dark strong, but is oftentimes referred to as quadruple.
Now there's no actual doubling or tripling of any of the ingredients or specific characteristics of the beer, but the beers do get stronger as you progress from single to quad.
To this day, a lot of these styles are produced by Trappist breweries located in Belgium and other parts of the world.
Trappist breweries are housed within Trappist monasteries and have to follow a number of strict guidelines in order to have their beard labeled as Trappist.
And the beers are generally regarded worldwide for their high quality.
The Trappist single style is probably the least commonly seen of any of these four.
The single style also sometimes referred to as like a Potter's beer is usually reserved for the monks at the monastery where it's brewed.
This is a beer that they would kind of drink every day alongside their meals.
And as such, it's not usually packaged or distributed, very widely.
Belgian dubbles a traditional Belgian style dating back to the early 1900s.
It was first produced at the Trappist brewery Westmoreland in the 1920s, Belgian doubles are usually amber to brown in color, and typically present with a lot of flavors of like brown sugar, sometimes molasses, maybe even a little bit of chocolate.
However, as is the case with many of these Belgian styles, Belgian dubble is actually a pretty highly attenuated style, which means that most of the sugar has been fermented out.
It's a dry beer with very little residual sugar.
Belgium tripel dates to a similar timeframe as Belgian dubble.
Tripel was first brewed also by Westmoreland in the 1930s and is a pale beer.
Belgian dark strong ale.
Also sometimes known as quadruple drinks, a lot like a strong version of a Belgium dubble, but usually two to three percentage points higher in alcohol.
Tart and or funky beers.
Pretty much anytime you encounter high levels of acidity in beer, that's going to be the result of a bacterial fermentation, usually bacteria that are producing lactic acid, maybe also bacteria that produce a acenic acid.
Now bacterial fermentation can sound kind of scary, but lactic acid bacteria are the same bacteria that produce yogurt.
So some of those kinds of tart flavors that you might find there are similar to the flavors that you have encountered in these beers.
These beers also sometimes incorporate so-called wild yeasts.
One of the most common that gets used as a yeast known as for batenamisis sometimes just referred to as Brett and the flavors that batenamisis produces in beer don't always sound super pleasant on first blush, things like horse blanket wet wool, barnyard.
There are characteristics that in isolation don't necessarily sound like they'd be good things, but at low levels, they can offer a really pleasant point of complexity in these beers.
So first step in this category, we've got two different tart German wheat beer styles.
The first is Berliner weisses, which is traditionally bracingly acidic.
Usually very highly carbonated, but still due to its kind of light body and low alcohol content.
They're usually very refreshing beers.
Historically bars would sometimes serve these beers with flavored syrups.
One of the stranger ones that was actually pretty prevalent was a syrup known as Woodruff syrup.
It had flavors of kind of like earth and hay, but more unusual is like bright green in color.
These days, they are honestly, aren't a lot of Berliner weisses being made in Germany.
You're more likely to see a smaller craft brewers making the style in places such as the US.
Style given its acidity lends itself really well to the addition of fruit.
So you'll see brewers adding things like peaches or raspberries or any number of different fruits to Berliner weiss style brews.
Gose is honestly a rather strange historic tart wheat beer style that was pretty obscure and virtually unheard of 10 years ago.
But in the last decade has just exploded in terms of its popularity.
Gose drinks, kind of like a mix of a Berliner weiss and a Belgium witbier.
So it has kind of the lactic acidity of Berliner weiss, has the coriander that you get from witbier, but then it also has kind of its own unique twist.
in that goses are usually made with the addition of salt.
At low levels, adding salt kind of enhances the body and the perception of sweetness of the beer.
The remainder of the tart and funky beer category is comprised of five distinct styles that come from Belgium.
We'll start with these Flanders or Flemish red and brown beers.
Belgians often don't make a clean distinction between these two styles.
In fact, Belgians generally don't talk about style nearly as much as we do over here.
Flanders red ale is a tart red beer from Western Flanders.
And the style is really typified by the products from a brewery named Rodenbach.
In addition to their acidity, these beers feature tons of fruit character, think like black cherry and current, lots of fruit notes present in these beers.
Sometimes these beers are referred to as like the burgundies of Belgium due to their similarities or overlaps with certain red wines.
And in that vein, this is a beer that I'd very much like to use with somebody who considers themselves a wine drinker, but not a beer drinker.
I've definitely won over audiences of wine drinkers with this beer.
To develop their acidity, these beers are typically aged in really large oak vats.
Of the two Flanders styles.
Oud Bruin is a little less common than Flanders red ale, but the style is indigenous to East Flanders and is typified by the products from the Liefmans brewery.
The last group of tart and funky beers that we have to discuss is the lambic family of beers.
And honestly, I think that these are some of the most fascinating beers made anywhere in the world.
There are a number of things that are very unique about the way that lambic is produced, but probably the most unusual facet of their production is the way that they're fermented.
Normally in the process of making beer brewers first produce what is called wort.
This is the sugary and hot liquid that then gets fermented by yeast.
However, lambic brewers take a very different approach.
Instead following the production of the work, they transfer that wort into a cool ship where they allow it to cool overnight, cool ship, basically being a large shallow basin.
And as the wort cools, the bacteria and yeast present in the air and the brewery begin to grow in the wort, essentially spontaneously inoculating the wort.
The base beer produces way is generically referred to as lambic and lambic is a style in and of itself.
Sometimes you will see straight lambics or however that's rather rare.
You're far more likely to see this lambic beer after it has aged for a couple of years, being used to produce two other more common styles, Gueuze and fruit lambic.
So Gueuze is typically a blend of several different vintages of lambic beer usually some amount of one year, some amount of two year and some amount of three year old lambic beer.
After these different vintages of lambic are blended together, the beer is re fermented in the bottle to achieve a very, very high level of carbonation.
When it's finished, it almost drinks kind of like a funky champagne.
Lastly, we have fruit lambic, which once again is taking that sort of tart funky bass lambic beer, but then the brewer is gonna add fruit to it and allow the fruit to go through another fermentation.
The most common fruits that you see used for these beers are raspberries in which case the beer was known, as fiend was or cherries.
In which case the beer is known as Creek.
The final category we're covering is smoked beers.
And there are only three traditional styles that we're covering in this category, but they have such a unique flavor and such unique characteristics that they really just couldn't be put anywhere else.
Now, there are a few different ways that brewers can impart smoky flavors to beer, but the most common one is going to be through the use of smoked malt.
Basically during the last stage of the malting process, when the malt would normally be dried with hot air, instead it's dried with air from some sort of fire that imparts those smoky flavors and characteristics.
Furthermore, the specific flavors that you get from those smoke malts are very much determined by what fuel is used for the fire.
The first smoke style that we'll cover is the German style, Rauchbier.
Rauch is the German word for smoke.
So Rauchbier just means smoke beer in Germany.
The malts that get used to make classic German Rauchbier are going to be smoked with Beechwood, which gives characteristic flavors of ham, bacon or sort of like campfire notes.
But some of these beers, particularly the ones that feature high levels of smoke malt, can be downright meaty in character.
The second beer that we're talking about in this family has a beer known as Piwo Grodziske also sometimes referred to as Grazter.
And this is a Polish smoked style and it's made with Oak smoked malts.
Now Oak smoke tends to be a little bit softer than Beechwood smoke.
So while this beer is still typically fairly intense in its smoke character, it's definitely a bit softer and more approachable than a classic Rauchbier often is.
The beer is also very highly carbonated and pretty low in alcohol.
So while you might not think of a beer that tastes kind of meaty as being a refreshing beer, it's actually pretty easy drinking beer.
And lastly, we have Lichtenhainer, which is a true historical oddity.
One way to think of it is basically like a smoked Berliner weiss, but with a little bit softer acidity to it.
While a hundred different beer styles definitely covers a lot of ground.
There's still a fair amount of beer on the market today that doesn't neatly conform to a specific beer style.
Commonly brewers will take an existing style and modify it either using unique ingredients or perhaps a unique technique to produce an entirely new creation.
So one common variation is beers that fall into the broad group of American wild ales.
This would be a brewer taking a style and using either bacteria or wild yeast to ferment it.
Like we saw in some of those tart and sour beers.
Two really common categories of variations involve both fruit beers and spiced beers, beers where brewers are gonna be adding some sort of fruit or some sort of spices.
In some cases, a mix of the two in order to create something interesting.
Some beers will leverage alternative sources of fermentable sugar.
Most beer is going to be a made with malted barley.
Some beers also include things like malted wheat, but there's a bunch of other ingredients that can be used.
Things like oats spelt, rye, millet or even things like molasses or agave.
Smoked beer is another somewhat common variation.
We talked about three specific styles that use smoked malt in heir production brewers today tend to experiment all the time.
And so you can make any style into a smoked style by adding smoked malt to it.
Wood aging is another technique that brewers can use to create variations on their styles.
There are a lot of different types of barrels that brewers can use, but in a lot of cases, you'll see brewers using spirit barrels, things like bourbon or other types of whiskey, maybe run barrels sometimes even like tequila barrels.
And then the last category is just a total catchall for whatever weird things brewers are cooking up these days.
This is specialty beers and this kind of included mixes of some of the above categories.
If a brewer wanted to make like a smoked beer with fruit or like a barrel aged beer with spices.
That's where this would fall.
[electric beer music] All right, that was each and every beer style.
I don't know about you guys, but all this talking about beers made me pretty damn thirsty.
I had a lot of fun talking to you guys, and I really hope that all this helps you find new beer styles in your journey.
Cheers.
Every Overwatch Hero Explained by Blizzards Michael Chu Every Video Game in 'Ready Player One' Explained By Author Ernest Cline Every Dinosaur In 'Jurassic Park' Series Explained Every Hero in 'Avengers: Infinity War' Every Spider-Man Movie & TV Show Explained By Kevin Smith Every Character in Mortal Kombat 11 Explained Every Legend in Apex Legends Explained Every Toy in Toy Story Explained Every Major Movie Reference in Stranger Things Every Rainbow Six Siege Operator Explained Every Top Toy of the Last 50 Years Every Stormtrooper in Star Wars Explained Every Starfighter in Star Wars Explained Every Top Video Game in the Last 40 Years Every Dog Breed Explained (Part 1) Every Star Trek: Picard Easter Egg Explained Every C-3PO Costume Explained By Anthony Daniels Every Dog Breed Explained (Part 2) Every Hidden Reference to Future Pixar Movies Explained Every Batmobile From Movies & TV Explained Every Job Homer Simpson's Ever Had Every Transformers Generation Explained Every Job Homer Simpson's Ever Had (Part 2) Every Style of Beer Explained Every Mortal Kombat 11 Ultimate Friendship Explained By Ed Boon Every Starfighter From Star Wars: Squadrons Explained Every Superpower From Zack Snyder's Justice League Explained Every Ape in Planet of the Apes Explained Every James Bond Car Explained Trauma Surgeon Breaks Down Every Home Alone Injury Every Batman Movie Villain Explained Food Scientist Breaks Down Every Plant-Based Milk Marvel vs Norse Mythology: Every Norse God in Thor Explained How PlayStation 5 Was Built Every Spider-Man Suit From Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales & Spider-Man Explained Every Champion in League of Legends Explained Every Jedi & Sith From Star Wars Explained By Kevin Smith Every Bone in the Human Body Explained Using John Wick Fighter Pilot Breaks Down Every Fighter Jet From Top Gun: Maverick Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Cond Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info  2023 Cond Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Cond Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japn Czech Republic & Slovakia
