Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Julian Chokkattu Gear Team Gear The Best Camera Bags, Straps, and Backpacks Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Best Everyday Sling $159 at Wandrd (9L) Best Everyday Backpack $170 at Amazon Runner-Up Sling $120 at Amazon (6L) Runner-Up Backpack $190 at Amazon The perfect camera bag doesn't exist. I once spent two hours at B&H in New York City trying to fit all of my photo gear inside more than 20 bags the store had on sale, and I still left unsatisfied. Everyone's needs are different, and what works for me might not work for you. But to make your search easier, the camera enthusiasts on the WIRED Gear team have tested more than 70 bags to help whittle down the choices. We've shoved our equipment into slings, messenger bags, backpacks, and cubes—we've even gone bag-free—all in search of a convenient way to carry everything while keeping it protected and lightweight. These are our favorite picks.
Check out our related buying guides, like the Best Messenger Bags , Best Laptop Bags , Best Fanny Packs , Best Mirrorless Cameras , Home Video Gear , and Best Mobile Camera Accessories for more. We also have a handy explainer on what “liters” mean in backpacks.
Updated October 2023: We've added bags from Ekster and Moment and a cube from Peak Design.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get WIRED for just $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com , full Gear coverage, and subscriber-only newsletters. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Scott Gilbertson and Jaina Grey contributed to this guide.
Photograph: Wandrd Best Everyday Sling Wandrd Rogue Sling Wandrd's Rogue sling (formerly called Roam) comes in three sizes: 3, 6, and 9 liters.
 I tried the latter, and it's become the pack I carry on all my bike and electric scooter treks.
 It can be carried as a sling, messenger, or waist pack, and because the soft padding conforms to my back, it's comfy to wear for long periods. The mix of 840-denier and 1680D ballistic nylon and water-resistant YKK zippers make it feel like it's worth twice its price too.
There's plenty of space for cameras, lenses, and other accessories. Need to carry a tripod? Cinch it to the bottom with the included straps. Need to bring a large tablet or laptop? Get Wandrd's laptop case ($59) , which elegantly slots in vertically in the rear-most pocket. It's easily my favorite sling.
$159 at Wandrd (9L) $139 at Wandrd (6L) $159 at B&H Photograph: Brevite Best Everyday Backpack Brevite The Jumper Out of all the backpacks I've tested under $200, I often find myself coming back to The Jumper by Brevite. This 18-liter bag makes me feel good when it's on my back. That's probably because it's available in several bright, eye-catching colors, like Lemon Yellow and Poppy Red. It's stylish and doesn't look like a camera bag. Yet you get the side pocket common on camera bags for easy access to the camera inside, and you can unzip the front to grab additional lenses. There's a zippered pocket on the front with some mesh pouches for batteries, cables, or SD cards, and the main compartment is roomy enough to hold a sweater (or lunch). The rearmost compartment closes with a waterproof zipper to protect your laptop.
I like that there's no camera cube to take out when converting it to a normal bag. Just fold down the Velcro divider in the main compartment and take out any additional dividers. The Jumper is comfortable to carry, and there's a luggage pass-through strap, a roomy side pocket, and tripod attachment straps on the base. Seriously, it has it all. The 600-denier polyester material has held up over a year of use, though my Lemon Yellow model is prone to stains.
$170 at Amazon $170 at Moment $170 at Brevite Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Moment Runner-Up Sling Moment Rugged Camera Sling Moment's Rugged Sling is aimed at street photographers who trek around all day. It has a modular organization system inside, and its weatherproof fabric is made from recycled sails (technically it's recycled polyester fiber and film, made by Northsail ). There's a large zippered front pocket that makes it easy to get to your gear, and the “winged” rear padding design makes it super comfortable on your back. The best part is the ingenious magnetic clip system, which works very well. It comes in two sizes, 6 liters and 10 liters. I found the larger version perfect for carting around a drone. — Jaina Grey $120 at Amazon (6L) $130 at Moment (10L) Photograph: Peak Design Runner-Up Backpack Peak Design Everyday Backpack Zip The Everyday Backpack Zip doesn't immediately give itself away as a camera bag, and I like that I can access my camera by taking one slinging the backpack around my shoulder to the front—though it's not as simple as a camera bag with a traditional side access pocket. I tested the 20-liter model and it had plenty of room for my Nikon Z 6, three lenses, and my external monitor recorder. I also had no trouble housing my Peak Design Travel Tripod in the side pocket, especially with the included straps to keep it secure. There's another pocket on the other side that can fit a water bottle with no problem.
There's yet another zippered pocket for storing up to a 16-inch laptop (the 15-liter model is limited to 13-inch laptops), plus an extra sleeve for a tablet. This compartment has some organization and pouches for storing spare batteries, storage cards, chargers, and cables. I just wish it opened up a little more—it's a bit of a tight squeeze. The bag itself is well constructed, with a 400-denier water-repellent nylon canvas shell made of 100 percent recycled post-consumer material that protected my gear from a sudden downpour one evening. I like that there are grab handles on three sides, and most importantly, it's pretty comfy on my back. It's a good blend of features for the money.
$190 at Amazon $190 at Peak Design $190 at B&H Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Wandrd Best Upgrade Wandrd Prvke Camera Bag V2 If you've gone through a few camera bags, the Prvke V2 (pronounced “provoke”) is the one upgrade you'll be satisfied with for years.
For me, it's the closest a camera bag has ever come to perfection. It comes in green, blue, black, camo, orange, and tan, and you choose between 11 , 21, 31, or 41 liters—I opted for the 31-liter version.
 I like it so much that I wrote about it in greater detail here.
 All of the bag sizes come with an expandable handy roll top that offers an additional 5 liters of space.
The improved padding is cushiony, and the exterior waterproof tarpaulin and Robic 1680-denier ballistic nylon materials have held up extremely well over time. It fits everything I need to shoot a video in the field, including a tripod (which secures in place with a buckle). With the side-access pocket, grabbing the camera is a snappy affair, but you'll need to take the bag off to unzip the main compartment and access your other gear. There's a laptop sleeve big enough to house a 16-inch computer, plus another spot for a tablet, and there are lots of other pockets and pouches to store smaller items. Additional attachment points on the exterior mean you can strap in just about anything else. Make sure to buy the Photography Bundle to get the Essential Camera Cube.
$299 at B&H (Photo Bundle) $299 at Wandrd (Photo Bundle) Photograph: Moment Three Good Compact Slings Small Packs Long Weekend Monterey Camera Sling 2L for $50 : You can don this sling bag as a cross-body or a fanny pack, and it's comfy whichever way you wear it. Its rad design will turn eyes—a stranger asked where I got it from—but know that its 2-liter capacity means this is meant for carrying a slim point-and-shoot, phone, or very compact mirrorless camera. Its main compartment has a thin sleeve to store an item alongside your camera, and over on the front are two pockets for spare batteries or keys. It's made of recycled 500-denier nylon and 210-denier ripstop with YKK zippers.
Nomatic McKinnon Camera Sling 8L for $160 : It's a little spendy, but this has quickly become my go-to sling whenever I take my dog on long walks. It weighs roughly a pound and a half, has a comfy shoulder strap, and is compact, yet it can fit my Nikon Z 6 and an extra lens. Make sure to cinch it tight, though, or it'll slide down. There are a few pouches for storing SD cards, batteries, filters, and a battery pack, and I like that the exterior material—which is water resistant—retains its shape and feels durable. The zipper isn't the smoothest, but you can keep the bag closed with a nifty elastic band instead, which also allows for faster one-hand access. There's a luggage pass-through and hooks at the base for attaching straps to secure a tripod, though you'll need to buy your own.
 You can wear it as a shoulder bag, cross-body, or sling.
Hex Ranger DSLR Camera Sling XL 10L for $90 : This bag has decent padding on its sides, and the 10-L size is large enough to pack most everyday essentials for photo and video shoots—including a 13-inch laptop in the rear zippered compartment. There are two roomy pockets on the front, one with lots of pouches for chargers, SD cards, and batteries, and the other is lined with faux fur and is great for more delicate items like sunglasses. The straps at the bottom make it really easy to stow a small tripod, and the Cordura and ballistic nylon exterior did a great job protecting my gear in the rain. I wish the top zipper moved more smoothly. (I also tested and like the 8-liter version for lighter days.
) Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Ekster A Great Travel-Friendly Camera Backpack Ekster Grid Backpack When I traveled to Cupertino to cover the Apple project announcement back in September, I packed all my camera gear into the Ekster Grid. I used Ekster's Tech Case ($50) to store chargers, batteries, storage cards, and cables, and its Camera Cube ($60) to stow my Nikon Z 6 and an extra lens. The bag's main compartment is cavernous, so I was also able to fit a mobile gimbal, a speedlight, and a video light. I shoved a 16-inch laptop and a portable monitor into the rear-most section and secured my Peak Design Travel Tripod in the water bottle pocket, cinching it tight with the built-in strap. It holds its shape well and stays upright on the ground. I also liked the secret side zippered pocket where I kept my passport, and the luggage passthrough means you can affix it to your carry-on.
It's not a system I'd use if I needed immediate access to my gear, since you need to open the whole thing and then open your camera cube, but I love that it remains slim despite the amount of hardware inside. The Grid is made from upcycled PET bottles, making it water resistant, and I found it a comfortable way to carry a heavy load for hours at a time.
$195 at Ekster Photograph: Billingham The Classic Messenger Billingham Hadley Pro Camera Bag Billingham bags have a solid reputation among photographers. They're renowned for their durability, understated style, and lifetime warranties. As a camera bag, the Hadley Pro is not as fully featured as some of the others on this list, but it’s great for the basics and serves double duty as a solid overnight travel bag. Its weather-resistant finish and timeless style make it one of my favorites.
$339 at Amazon $293 at Billingham Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Moment An Excellent Camera Tote Bag Moment Everything Tech Tote (19L) I took this Everything Tech Tote bag to the beach last summer, and it couldn't have been more perfect. Using the included divider, I was able to stow my camera and a spare lens. I was also able to fit two water bottles, two towels, sunscreen, my dog's food, and extra clothes. It's roomy, though you might have to dig through some items to get to the camera if you fill it up. I don't love carrying tote bags because the shoulder strap is usually too short, but that wasn't a problem here. I still ended up using the extra crossbody strap more because it's a lot more comfortable over a long period of time.
There are a lot of pouches for organizing other accessories on the inside, including a zippered pouch, and you can keep it all protected by zipping up the top. Each side of the tote has a small pouch, one of which is magnetized, which is where I store my sunglasses for easy access. The strap fabric is nice and soft, but I wouldn't have minded a shoulder pad for some extra comfort.
$120 at Moment $120 at Adorama Photograph: Manfrotto A Tactical Messenger Manfrotto Advanced Messenger M III With a bag named the Manfrotto Advanced Messenger M III, it's hard not to feel like Joseph Gordon-Levitt in Premium Rush while wearing this thing. This messenger has an inconspicuous look, but it's very versatile. I love that I don't need to open the flap to reach inside the spacious main compartment—there's a zipper up top that opens to give you quick access. You can fit a 14-inch laptop in a padded pouch, though you only get a few pockets and pouches for some basic organization. A luggage pass-through strap means you can set it on top of your carry-on roller, and you can even stow a compact tripod under the main flap with the included attachment straps. The polyester nylon has been treated with a water-resistant coating, so it should keep your goods dry, but the included rain fly will help when there's a sudden storm.
★ Another good messenger: The Tenba DNA 13 DSLR Messenger Bag ($180) is shockingly similar, but its higher price puts it a rung below. The water-repellent cover flap uses Velcro to stay attached, but pull it down and out, and you'll magically open it up almost silently. It's ingenious. Or you can use the top zipper to access the main compartment without fuss. You can fit a slim 13-inch laptop and a tablet in two separate pouches, and a DSLR along with several stacked lenses because the bag is quite deep. (The camera insert is removable, adding some versatility.) There are mesh side pockets, a luggage pass-through, a front zippered pocket with some pouches for smaller gear, and hooks at the bottom to attach straps for carrying a tripod.
$115 at Amazon $116 at Adorama $116 at B&H Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Manfrotto Best Budget Camera Backpack Manfrotto Street Slim Camera Backpack It's shocking just how much you can pack into this 12-liter backpack. I filled it with my Nikon Z 6, a strobe light, a Peak Design Travel Tripod, a tech organizer with spare batteries, wireless mics, an external video monitor, a half cage with a handle, charging cables, adapters, and a laptop. Pretty much everything I needed for an all-day shoot. It remains true to its name and stays slim.
The synthetic fabric Manfrotto uses doesn't feel as durable as the fabric on our pricier picks, and there's no way to take a camera out of the bag without swinging it forward and unzipping the front pouch. I also wouldn't have minded firmer padding on the base. On the plus side, you can take out the camera cube and convert the Street Slim into a regular backpack with a dedicated laptop sleeve. The side pockets are expandable, and there's a luggage pass-through and a few roomy pockets for housing various gizmos.
$110 at Amazon $110 at Adorama Photograph: Moment A Durable and Versatile Backpack Moment Everything Backpack (21L) Moment's Everything Backpack is effectively a revamp of its original MTW Backpack , an already great camera bag. It comes in 17-, 21-, and 28-liter sizes , though I prefer the first two. This new iteration fixes the gripes I had with the original—it no longer feels like it's about to pop if you fill it up with gear, thanks to its increased depth. The luggage passthrough sleeve also keeps the bag vertical instead of sideways on your carry-on, the backpack does a better job of sitting upright by itself, and there's increased padding where the bag meets your back. All great improvements.
The 21-liter bag I tested can fit a 16-inch laptop, though the 17-liter is better suited to carrying a 14-inch machine. There's space to store a tablet, with pouches for other accessories, but that's just the laptop compartment. Open up the main section and you get a wide open space to stash Moment's 4-liter camera cube (not included) and more. (You can affix the cube to the hooks in the bag to keep it in place.) I can store my Nikon Z 6 and a spare lens in the cube, plus a gimbal, video light, and other tchotchkes. At the front is a zippered compartment with extra pockets and pouches. It's comfy to carry, and the 420-denier Nylon fabric has a durable water-repellent coating that has kept my gear dry. My only complaint? I wish there was a strap above the water bottle side pocket to secure my Peak Design Travel tripod. Right now, it's not very tripod-friendly; anything heavier than a mobile tripod flops over and falls out.
$150 at Amazon $150 at Moment $120 at B&H (17L) Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: West Slope Best for Runners West Slope Terraform Backpack Most camera bags aren't great for running. Admittedly, running with a camera maybe isn't the best idea anyway, but I (Scott) like to combine running, birding , and photography. I could be a nation of one in that regard, but West Slope's Terraform backpack makes me think otherwise. It's really two packs in one. You take off the backpack shell and there's a lightweight running vest underneath. That's handy, but for use with a camera, I like to counterbalance my Sony A7R II and Nikon M5 binoculars with two water bottles on the front. Would I run a marathon in it? No, but I wouldn't run a marathon anyway. I just like to head out in the early morning on a light jog and sneak in a little birding before my kids wake up.
$108 at West Slope Photograph: Lo & Sons A High-Fashion Bag Lo & Sons Claremont Crossbody This is my (Jaina's) kind of camera bag. It doesn’t draw attention to itself. It’s stylish but doesn’t scream “camera bag.” It’s slick and round where so many camera bags are boxy and technical. Claremont doesn't sacrifice functionality in pursuit of a more elevated style, either. The bag has numerous internal pockets for memory cards, batteries, and snacks. It’s roomy enough for a mirrorless camera and a couple of lenses, plus additional everyday essentials.
$368 at Lo & Sons Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Manfrotto A Traditional Holster Manfrotto Advanced III Holster Bag Holsters have waned in popularity, and they're not particularly stylish, but I can see their appeal when there's nothing you want to bring besides your camera. This one from Manfrotto checks off many of the boxes. I tested the medium size and it can fit a camera with a medium-size lens, there are two small pouches on the inside, and you can attach a small tripod to the exterior of the front with a strap. (There's a small and large size as well.) You can either swing it from your shoulder or attach it to your waist with the belt loop. The design is very rigid, so it'll keep whatever's inside intact.
$42 at Amazon (Small) $50 at Adorama (Medium) $55 at B&H (Large) Photograph: Peak Design A Camera Totebag Peak Design Everyday Totepack We have a guide filled with laptop tote bags here , but Peak Design's Everyday Tote is a nice option for photographers and videographers alike. I like carrying it by the handles at the top most of the time, but when your arm gets tired, you can pull out the straps in the rear pouch to pop the bag on your back. The top access is magnetic (there's also a zipper), so it's easy to grab the 13- or 16-inch laptop out of the sleeve. For everything else, you'll want to use either of the side pockets. The built-in dividers make it easy to organize the pack to fit a telephoto or tiny pancake lens (or lunch).
As for your tiny gear, you can stuff them into the zippered pouch in the front. Sadly, there are no side pockets, so you'll have to store your water bottle or umbrella inside with the rest of your goods and have the dividers keep things protected.
$180 at Amazon $180 at Peak Design $180 at B&H Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Wandrd A Backpack for Hiking Wandrd Fernweh I haven't gone camping or backpacking with it, but I did use the Fernweh to transport a computer monitor from my partner's office back home via a bicycle. When our offices needed to be cleared out in the summer of 2020, it was my bag of choice to carry all the remaining items I had at my desk, including a full-size keyboard, several phone-sized boxes, and … an unopened bottle of wine from the previous Christmas. This 50-liter bag is so spacious it can fit all your important photo gear in the removable camera cube, plus anything else you need to bring on a hiking trip. The back padding, shoulder straps, and waist straps are thick and soft, making the whole thing incredibly comfortable to wear.
The many compartments, straps, and zippers can get very confusing, but take it out on a trip once or twice and you'll get the hang of it. The quick-draw access on the side lets you speedily grab your camera, and there's also water bladder routing so you can parch your thirst without reaching for a bottle.
$463 at Wandrd (With Camera Cube) $369 at B&H (Bag Only) Photograph: Moment Tech Organizers Tiny Bags Tech organizers are for all those little bits and pieces that can easily get lost in the crevices of your backpack: the microfiber cloth, the SD card, the hex key. Keep 'em all in one spot with one of these.
Mujjo Tech Case for $75 : I've been using Mujjo's 3-liter tech organizer for several months and it's excellent. The pouches in the middle are stiff, so I can put a lot of items in there and they don't feel like they flop over into the sides of the bag. There really are a lot of pouches. It can be difficult to remember where you put what—a little color coding or some kind of distinguishing feature could've helped—but taking items out never felt like a chore. It's roomy! It's also made of recycled polyester.
Ekster Tech Case for $50 : Ekster's case is well padded and made from water-resistant 400-denier tarpaulin and polyester from recycled water bottles. It holds its structure without crumpling from other gear in your bag. There are two elastic pouches on one end and a thick, soft divider in the middle, with elastic straps to secure cables. A roomy pouch sits on the other side.
Moment MTW Tech Organizer for $59 : This bag will satisfy anyone who carries multiple spare batteries for various devices, several cables, neutral density filters, and solid-state drives. I've been using it, as well as the $50 battery organizer , in a variety of my bags for some time. The water-resistant 350-denier recycled nylon exterior has held up well, and it has a nice rigidity that gives it structure.
Manfrotto Street Tech Organizer for $35 : This one is flimsier, with a thinner synthetic fabric that doesn't feel as nice as the Moment. It's roomy, with space for a large battery pack, filters, camera batteries, and Rode wireless mics, but it's not as easy to neatly organize the gear.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Peak Design Have You Considered a Camera Cube? You May Not Need a Camera Bag If you already own bags you like, consider a packing cube (also called an “insert”) instead of springing for a new camera bag. All you need to do is put your gear into the cube and insert it into an existing bag. These cubes are made for delicate camera gear, so they are well-padded to protect the jewels of your toolkit. They're designed for bags made by their respective manufacturers, but you can measure your bag to see if a cube made by somebody else will fit.
Peak Design Camera Cube V2 for $70 : Peak Design redesigned its classic camera cube, which now comes in extra small, small, smedium , medium, and large. I tested the smedium size, and there is ample room to fit my mirrorless camera, a speedlight, and two lenses. There's good padding and customizable Velcro dividers, and the weatherproof zippered opening folds back enough that you can keep the cube open for easy access to your gear. It's not a cube I would use as a stand-alone, but it does the job almost perfectly, and the various sizes make it a good option for a variety of bags. I'm not a huge fan of the 360-degree handle, however, because it's quite tight and can be difficult to grab.
Ekster Camera Cube for $60 : Ekster's camera cube is on the smaller side—I can fit my mirrorless camera plus a spare lens or two—but there are zippered pockets to store other accessories, which is a nice touch. The padding is thick, and it's stylish enough to use as a standalone (with hooks to attach a strap). The 400-denier recycled polyester is water resistant too.
Moment MTW Camera Insert for $60 : Moment's insert is one of the smallest I've used, but it's thin and won't take up a lot of room in your bag. Its frame is very stiff, and there's still a decent amount of padding. I really like how the interior is bright red, making it super easy to see what's inside if it's dark. You only get two dividers, but they have stretchy pockets, so you can keep smaller items in them. There are aluminum anchors on the exterior to keep it secure, though it's best used with Moment's own backpacks.
Lowepro GearUp Creator Box XL II for $60 : More camera bags need to have bright interiors. The LowePro's orange liner really makes things easier when it's dark out. You can fit a DSLR with two to three lenses in this 8-liter bag, and use the rear and inner pouches, plus the front zippered pocket, for some smaller items. The padding is pretty decent all around. Toss it in a carry-on or backpack, or you can grab an accessory strap and carry it by itself. The nylon material it's made of makes it decently water-resistant, though I'd limit your excursions to light rain.
Wandrd Camera Cube for $64 : This cube is better for backpacks with side access. It's made of 420-denier Robic nylon and has a weather-resistant coating. You get five thick dividers you can customize via the Velcro lining to fit around your equipment, and three straps to hold everything down. The Essential lineup comes in three sizes, but there are Essential and Pro sizes too, and each also has Plus or Deep variants if you need more room.
Photograph: Peak Design A Camera Strap May Also Work Strap Up If you're only carrying around your camera, you can skip the camera bag, but I strongly recommend a strap. It's a safe way to keep your camera secure to your body, so if it fumbles through your fingers it won't hit the ground. Ditch the strap from your camera manufacturer; these alternatives are better.
★ Peak Design Leash for $45 : This is the best camera strap I've used. Attach one side of the Leash to where you usually attach a camera strap, then stick the other end to the bottom tripod mount via the included anchor mount. This allows the camera to droop lens-down on your body, meaning the grip is the first thing you'll grab when reaching for it. It doesn't feel awkward, and the seatbelt-style strap swiftly glides across any outfit.
★ Hex Ranger Camera Wrist Strap for $30 : This is my favorite wrist strap. It's made of nylon and there's EVA foam padding that makes it comfy on the wrist and it doesn't feel constricting. It's easy to attach and detach from the camera via the Hypalon connector, which is rated to hold 80 pounds. But the best feature? If you let go of the camera, the strap automatically fastens; grab the camera again and it automatically loosens. No need to fiddle around with fasteners.
Peak Design Slide Lite for $60 : Peak Design's smaller camera strap is just as comfortable and well-made as the Leash, and it can be worn as a sling around your neck or over your shoulder. It's two-sided with a textured grip on the underside that keeps it from sliding around when you're walking.
Peak Design Capture Clip for $75 : OK, this isn't a strap, and it requires a backpack, but it's one of my favorite ways to carry a camera when I'm covering an event. Attach the clip to your backpack's shoulder strap and attach the anchor to the bottom of your camera. Then just slide this anchor onto the Capture clip and voilà, your camera is now securely resting on your backpack arm strap, hands-free. Push a button to quickly slide it out. I've used this system at major trade shows like CES, and it makes it super easy to snap photos without digging inside my backpack for my camera.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: ONA Honorable Mentions Other Good Bags We've tested a lot of camera bags. Here are others we really like but have been eclipsed by our top picks.
Clever Supply Camera Sling for $236 : I love the look of this waxed canvas bag and its flourishes of full-grain leather. It's a classic and classy design that makes me happy whenever I head out the door with my camera in tow. It's comfy and easy to adjust the shoulder strap, and there are three grab handles on the top and sides so you have a lot of carrying options. It can fit my Nikon Z 6, two small lenses, and a compact tablet. (Smaller than 11 inches; it didn't fit the OnePlus Pad.
) There's a zippered pouch inside to store storage cards and a zippered pocket on the exterior for cables. My main gripe is that opening the main compartment sometimes requires two hands—the zipper gets stuck on the corner so I need my other hand to keep the bag in place. I wish the front pocket also had more give; when the bag is full, it feels too tight to put anything in there.
Peak Design Everyday Backpack for $280 : This is the slightly bigger and more feature-packed version of the Everyday Zip we recommend above. Instead of a zipper that goes all the way around, you have two zippers for each side and a flap at the top that you can use Peak Design's MagLatch system to cinch up if you don't need the extra space up top. There are various pouches for organization throughout, as well as side pockets that can hold a compact tripod. I tried the 20-liter model, but if you have a lot of gear, you may want to spring for the 30-liter.
Peak Design Everyday Sling for $160 : The Everyday Sling has long been one of my (Jaina) personal favorites for everyday carry or heading out for a day of shooting. It comes with flexible dividers you can adjust or remove, depending on how much organization or storage space you need. It comes in 3-, 6-, and 10-liter sizes. The 10-liter version has room for a 13-inch MacBook Pro, a charger, and my FujiFilm X-Pro 2 camera. If you need room for additional lenses or a larger camera body, you might want to forego the MacBook; it can get a little tight in there.
Hex Backloader Backpack for $200 : I usually prefer bags with side access, but I've been quite happy with the Hex Backloader. Yes, you need to take it off your back to access all your gear, but an access point at the very top makes it easy to quickly pull out the camera. The main compartment in the back is really spacious and is outfitted with tons of Velcro dividers, so you have lots of room for customization. There are organizational mesh pouches and pockets galore, a padded section in the front that can fit a 15-inch laptop, straps on one side for a tripod, and a pouch on the other for a bottle. It's super comfy to carry around, sternum strap and all.
Hex Cinema Backpack for $240 : This is very similar to the Backloader, except it has a larger 28-liter volume instead of 20-liter, so it can fit a lot more gear. That's not the only change: It swaps out the straps on one side of the bag in favor of a side-access pocket, so it's even easier to access the camera. Where the Backloader feels like an everyday backpack, the Cinema feels like a bag you'd take on multi-day shoots.
Shimoda Explore V2 25 Backpack for $373 : I really like this backpack, but it's a touch too expensive. It's supremely comfortable to carry, thanks to its extensive padding, and the whole thing is water-resistant to keep your gear safe. I was able to stuff it with a surprising number of items despite its relatively slim size (all of which you can access from the rear), including a tripod in its side deployable pocket that you can cinch tight with a strap. There's side access to the camera, tons of pockets for organization (I love the little pouch on the arm straps), and a padded sleeve for a 13-inch laptop.
Wotancraft Scout Daily Camera Bag 9L for $299 : If you're after a stylish messenger, I've always liked the designs from Wotancraft, and the Scout is no different. It's made of durable Cordura with some cowhide leather thrown in for the straps on the flap. The main compartment is spacious and separated by sturdy dividers, along with a padded laptop pouch that can barely fit a 13-inch MacBook Air. There are two pouches in the front that can loosely carry some small items, but there's not much in the way of organization here. There is a luggage pass-through and a rear zippered pocket, but no side pockets and no easy way to attach a tripod.
Ona The Bowery Compact Messenger Bag for $209 : I've owned this bag (the black waxed canvas version) for seven years, and it remains in great shape. It's attractive and perfect for short outings, with plenty of padding and a divider to keep your gear protected. You'll only be able to fit a camera and one extra lens. There's a pouch on the back I've used to stow a Nintendo Switch or a Kindle, and I shove my cables, batteries, and SD cards in the pouch on the front. Unfortunately, the two side pockets are too tight to fit anything bigger than a pen or a microfiber cloth. One perk? You can quickly detach the strap to turn the Bowery into a camera cube for a bigger backpack. It comes in an array of colors and materials.
Tenba DNA 16 DSLR Backpack for $230 : You can access your camera from the front of this bag, and the compartment cooly folds out, like a drawer. There's enough space to fit a big camera and a few lenses, but don't forget the padded laptop compartment in the back, a roll-top you can expand, and another zippered area for additional items. You can comfortably put a water bottle and a tripod into each side pocket. I took it with me on a trip to DC, and the front looks a bit scuffed up already, but it's an otherwise fine bag.
Manfrotto Pro Light Frontloader Backpack for $235 : Unzip the main front compartment and you can access all your camera gear neatly sectioned apart by the included Velcro divider system. This 25-liter bag is roomy, but that also makes it quite puffy on your back—you might bump into folks in crowds if you're not careful. There's side access for the camera, which is nice, but it's an otherwise dreary-looking pack.
Tenba Fulton V2 16L Backpack for $139 : I really prefer bags that have some way to quickly grab the camera, and that's why the Fulton V2 isn't higher above: The only way to pull out the camera is by taking the bag off and unzipping the back compartment. (Technically, you can access this compartment from the roll top, but that requires undoing a lot of Velcro.) Otherwise, it's a nice, small bag that can fit a good amount of gear, with an expandable roll top to store lunch or spare clothes, a stretchable mesh side pocket for bottles, and a canvas side pocket that can fit small tripods. Tenba says this can fit a 16-inch laptop in the padded compartment on the front, but I could only squeeze in a 13-incher. It's water-resistant and comfy to tote around.
Lowepro PhotoSport Outdoor Backpack III 15L for $139: This pack looks good on the trail and can only fit a small DSLR or mirrorless in its removable cube (with side access!). It'll mesh well with your other hiking gear, and there's a good amount of room for snacks and anything else you'd want on short hikes (including a 2-liter hydration bladder). It's made of 75 percent recycled fabrics.
Photograph: Gitzo Avoid These Bags No Good There are a lot of bags that aren't quite worth your time and money. There are just so many better options. We've listed them here so you can steer clear.
Gitzo Legende Camera Backpack for $250 : This Gitzo bag arguably has the best aesthetic of all the backpacks in this guide, with a look that recalls Indiana Jones heading off on a new adventure. There's a side access pocket, but getting to anything else in the bottom camera cube is a chore. It's just not very intuitively designed. There's a separate section for your laptop, but many of the zippered pockets, side pockets, and pouches are very small and can only fit so much. It's just not sensible considering the price.
Nomatic McKinnon Camera Backpack 25L for $300 : I hate this bag. It's so expensive, yet it lacks crucial features like accessory straps and dividers—you have to spend more for those. And you need straps because a tripod will not stay put in the side pockets without one. The organization is really barebones, and on one trip where I had to stow some items I didn't expect to bring home, one of the zippers for the main compartment broke off as I was closing it. Stay away.
Nomatic McKinnon Camera Tech Organizer for $70 : It feels like this little tech bag was designed for a very specific set of small gear and not much else. I was able to fit a ton more cables, power banks, charging adapters, card readers, and spare batteries into our favorite camera tech organizers above, but had trouble stuffing them into this bag. It's sturdy and doesn't crumple up, but that's about the only thing it has going for it.
Domke F-832 Shoulder Bag for $195 : I used this bag to cover the 2014 December march on Washington, DC, It's fine. The padding at the bottom isn't thick, and the included inserts are flimsily attached via a single line of Velcro on the bag's interior. It's roomy, and you can use it to carry spare clothes, a laptop, and toiletries. Unless you just want to toss your gear into what is essentially a large pouch, you're better off with one of the messengers above.
Reviews Editor X Topics Shopping cameras Bags buying guides Accessories and Peripherals Jaina Grey Simon Hill Brenda Stolyar Julian Chokkattu Adrienne So Adrienne So Julian Chokkattu Eric Ravenscraft WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
