Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Medea Giordano Gear How to Order Your Free At-Home Covid-19 Tests Photograph: Jay L. Clendenin/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Another Covid-19 variant is spreading, but there's an updated vaccine and four more free tests are available for every household in the US—including US territories and military addresses—starting September 25. While you don't need to panic , it's good to have tests on hand so you can find out if you have Covid. That way, you can prevent the spread of the virus to others.
If you need a test right now, we have a guide to finding the best at-home tests and have outlined the process of ordering and taking tests below.
 Also, see our guides to the best N95 masks and other reusable masks we like.
 You can follow our Covid-19 coverage here.
Updated September 2023: We added information on how to get free tests and how to check if your old tests have expired.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get WIRED for just $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com , full Gear coverage, and subscriber-only newsletters. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
How to Order Tests How to Check If Old Tests Are Still Good If You Need a Test ASAP Common Problems When Using the Site Vaccinations and Boosters Head directly to the US Postal Service’s Covid-19 page.
 If you go through Covid.gov , on the front page you should see “Order Free At-Home Tests” in a blue bubble. Clicking that redirects you to the right USPS page. There, you'll fill out your name and address. Include your email address so you can get shipping notifications. Once you've filled in your address, click the green Check Out Now button to the right. It's completely free, including shipping. Only one person per household should place a request.
If there is someone in your life who doesn't have access to the internet, the easiest thing to do is to fill out this form for them. They can try to call the Covid.gov helpline at 1-877-696-6775, though they will likely be on hold for a while. Don't call USPS, as no one you speak to will be able to place orders on your behalf.
The first round of tests took several weeks to arrive, but the second and third rounds arrived within a few days. There's no guarantee as to what brand you'll be getting, and you can't choose, but the site says these are Food and Drug Administration (FDA)–authorized at-home rapid antigen tests. You'll likely receive the iHealth tests we recommend.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So You should take a test as soon as you start to notice symptoms or within five days of exposure, according to the Centers for Disease Control.
 If you're asymptomatic and your first test is negative, take another test based on the manufacturer's instructions. This is usually within two to three days of the first test—most tests come with two tests per box for this reason. If your test is positive, take another test to verify it and quarantine for five days.
You might already have a few tests on hand from past government shipments or that you've bought separately. They're likely fine to use.
Check the FDA's list of authorized at-home tests. If the expiration date was extended, that means the manufacturer provided data to the FDA showing that the shelf-life is longer than it thought when it was first authorized.
If you need a test ASAP, please check our guide on Rapid At-Home Covid-19 Tests and Where to Find Them.
 It also has more information about accuracy. Rapid tests usually show results in about 15 minutes, and they're about 85 percent accurate.
The Tests We Recommend (see our guide for more retailers).
Abbott BinaxNow Antigen Rapid Self-Test Kit for $24 FlowFlex Covid-19 Antigen Rapid Test for $10 QuickVue At-Home OTC Covid-19 Test Kit for $24 Intrivo Diagnostics On/Go Antigen Self-Test for $20 iHealth Covid-19 Antigen Rapid Test for $18 InteliSwab Rapid Antigen Home Test Kit for $18 Even though the government had two years to figure out this plan, it was not without bugs at launch. Hopefully, you'll be able to complete your request in minutes. But here are a few common problems we've seen.
During the first round, many apartment dwellers found themselves unable to request tests because their multi-unit building was classified as a single residence. If anyone in the entire buildin g placed an order for tests, the system thought they were requesting more than the allotted number per household.
This should be resolved, and we didn't run into this problem the last time we ordered tests in December, but if you find this happening again, file a service request here.
 You may be able to resolve the issue by making sure your address is entered accurately using the USPS’ zip code search.
 You can also try entering your apartment's unit number in the same box as your address instead of the Apt / Suite / Other box. The same issue happened for those who reside in a live-work building, which is common in the San Francisco Bay Area.
 The system sees these addresses as businesses and won't ship tests to the location. You'll need to file a service request.
If you've used all your tests or you just have a bigger family, you're out of luck when it comes to a free at-home kit.
You can purchase more if you need them.
 Health insurance providers were reimbursing the cost of tests, but as of May 2023, that is no longer guaranteed.
 Private insurance companies can choose to reimburse customers or not, so it's worth asking and saving receipts. If you're on Medicaid, you'll be able to receive free tests until September 30, 2024.
These tests are sent to valid residential addresses and residential PO boxes only.
One of the FAQs asks if tests can be picked up at another location or held at the USPS, and the answer is, unfortunately, no. If you're homeless, reach out to your local health social service agency to find a free test.
Being vaccinated won't stop you from getting Covid-19, but it could alleviate the worst and most dangerous symptoms. We recommend getting vaccinated if you haven't already, and if you have, get a booster shot.
Vaccines.gov should help you find somewhere near you with vaccines available—a search of my zip code showed 50 places within six miles.
You Might Also Like … 📨 Make the most of chatbots with our AI Unlocked newsletter Taylor Swift, Star Wars, Stranger Things , and Deadpool have one man in common Generative AI is playing a surprising role in Israel-Hamas disinformation The new era of social media looks as bad for privacy as the last one Johnny Cash’s Taylor Swift cover predicts the boring future of AI music Your internet browser does not belong to you 🔌 Charge right into summer with the best travel adapters , power banks , and USB hubs Writer and Reviewer X Topics COVID-19 public health CDC coronavirus Shopping how-to Simon Hill Jaina Grey Julian Chokkattu Adrienne So Adrienne So Simon Hill Brenda Stolyar Reece Rogers WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
