Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons The Biology Behind The Last of Us About Released on 01/13/2023 [Narrator] This gruesome infection at HBO's The Last of Us is actually based on this very real parasitic fungus that turns certain insects into zombies Growing from her head, that is the fruiting body that contains the spores.
[Narrator] The creators of the game and the new show were inspired by zombie carpenter ants, specifically.
They even gave the bugs a quick cameo.
[Dr. de Bekker] So it's a pretty cool Easter egg that's in the game.
[clicker noises] [Narrator] The zombies in The Last of Us go through four stages of infection, which have parallels in nature.
Wired spoke to an expert on the real fungus reference in The Last of Us.
Those are a lot of spores. [laughs] [Narrator] To compare those zombies with similar examples in nature.
Most zombies in TV and film are depicted as reanimated corpses, but not in The Last of Us.
Viruses can make us ill, but fungi can alter our very minds.
One thing it does right where a lot of movies do it wrong is that the infected are still alive when they're manipulated.
There's lots of examples of this in nature.
[Narrator] The brains of living crickets, cockroaches, and even mammals can get hijacked by different types of zombie parasites that alter their behavior.
New research shows that gray wolves get infected with toxoplasma by interacting with cougars and their feces, which carry the parasite.
Those that are infected are more risk taking, more bold, becoming the leader of the pack.
The behaviors that we're seeing are rather are complex.
[Narrator] And in the case of ants, the Cordyceps parasites spreads throughout the body as a yeast which secretes chemicals that behave similarly to neurotransmitters in the brain.
[Dr. de Bekker] It looks like the fungus is avoiding the nervous tissue.
It's not chewing on it, it's not eating it.
These cells might be close to the brain and then secretes molecules that manipulate it in such a way it behaves so precisely to help this fungus spread.
[Narrator] In the first stage, the infected humans don't show outward signs of their condition.
In the beginning, the ants don't behave differently.
After a few days, you see that the behavior of the ants definitely is changing.
[Narrator] In the video game, it starts with a twitch.
Twitching, we also see this in our ants.
They seem to have sometimes whole body convulsions.
The fungus is producing a compound that is similar to Aflatrem.
Certain fungi produce this, and when an animal ingests this they get staggers syndrome, so they get these tremors.
[Narrator] Then the humans in The Last of Us get a little hyper, moving at high speed as if stimulated by chemicals excreted by the fungus.
A similar thing happens with the zombies in Professor de Bekker's lab.
They're out and about all times of the day in constant locomotion.
[Narrator] Soon The Last of Us runners lose the ability to speak.
So do infected ants in a sense.
They don't communicate so well with other nestmates anymore.
Ants will sniff each other out with their antennae.
The smell of these ants definitely change.
So if an ant starts to smell differently because she is sick, they basically will kill her and put her on a discard pile.
[Narrator] There might be a similar social immunity dynamic at play in The Last of Us.
[Dr. de Bekker] I see a pile of humans infected by this fungus and sprouting mushroom bodies.
Definitely a pile I wouldn't wanna get near, you know. [laughs] [Narrator] Stage two, the stalker phase of The Last of Us zombies is characterized by obvious fungal growth.
The stalker definitely looks more Cordyceps like.
So all those strings growing off of the head they very much remind me of the stalks that we see on our ants, for instance.
It looks like the first bit of a mushroom body coming off of the left side of her head. That looks pretty gnarly.
[Narrator] Similarly in nature, the parasitic Masopora fungus radically transforms its host's physical shape and gives it a desire to seek out new hosts to infect.
This cicada, you'll see that its missing a part.
It's behind it's genitals, aptly named the butt fungus 'cause it loses its butt.
That's a fungal plug, and the powder are the fungal spores.
This is how the fungus is able to release its spores and infect other cicada.
In the game and in the show has fungus is able to reproduce by biting other humans or by contact with spores off of other humans that have these fruiting bodies sprouting off of them.
Masopora resembles the fungus in the game a little bit.
[Narrator] Because in The Last of Us and in nature, zombies have increased energy and they start to spread out and wander.
Normally, these ants would go forge for food with their nest mates and nicely follow ant trails.
Instead, they actually just wander around aimlessly.
[Narrator] Could a similar wandering dynamic be at play with gray wolves infected with a protozoan parasite? [Dr. de Bekker] Wolves infected with toxoplasma are more likely to wander away from their former pack to find a new one and are more risk taking, more bold.
[Narrator] The wolves studied recently in Yellowstone National Park could be drifting near to the source of their infection, cougars, because toxoplasma reproduces only in the stomach of felines.
In The Last of Us, during the clicker phase, the fungus has really taken over.
In the clicker, the morphology is changed entirely, so it makes me think more of the fungus called chicken of the woods, which is an edible fungus.
[Narrator] At this point, the zombies rely on echolocation after losing their sight.
In real life, zombie ants might also become impaired because they start randomly climbing towards light.
[Dr. de Bekker] They will climb up plants at certain light levels because they don't perceive light so well anymore and they're trying to search for it or they're getting themselves off the ground.
This is what we call summiting behavior.
Something that a lot of parasites have evolved to use as a strategy to transmit better.
The fungus is making the ant find some sort of microclimate that helps the fungus to develop its mushroom that releases the spores.
But if you're higher up in the air, then your spores can be more easily carried by the wind.
[Narrator] And can land on or be eaten by a new host.
Another example of infected hosts acting in the interest of their parasite are cockroaches that get stung by jewel wasp, which inject their victims with a kind of mind control venom along with a brood of eggs.
This changes the behavior of the cockroach entirely, doesn't wanna fight anymore.
It's this very docile creature that then follows the wasp back to its borough.
Fully gets eaten alive by this developing egg that eventually becomes a larva and not a situation that is beneficial to this cockroach, but very beneficial to the offspring of the wasp.
[Narrator] Similarly, crickets infected by the Gordian worm are compelled to act self destructively.
The worm needs to be in water to mate.
So what this worm does is it makes these crickets jump into water.
This cricket has no business being in the water.
So basically they have committed suicide.
[Narrator] And now the worm can breed in its natural habitat, the water.
A similar process happens with toxoplasma and mice which breeds in the digestive system of cats.
[Dr. de Bekker] Rodents that get infected with toxoplasmosis actually makes these rodents attracted to cat urine.
It's making it more likely that this rodent will get eaten.
Definitely behavior that is beneficial to toxoplasma, but absolutely not for the rodent.
[Narrator] In The Last of Us game, it takes years for the fungus to cover the skin completely and turn a human into a slow-moving bloater.
But for zombie ants in real life to succumb completely takes about three weeks and the beginning of the end starts with a hyper contraction of the jaw muscles.
Ants bite a branch, can't let go, and die as they're eaten by the fungus within.
[Dr. de Bekker] When the ant is in place, the fungus quickly changes its strategy and starts to eat everything including the brain to produce a fruiting body.
This is when the fungus will change from being a yeast to forming a mycelium.
Everything inside is just mycelium bursting out of the host.
So this is what we often call the stalk.
You see that on that stalk, there's this brown bulbous thing attached.
That's the fruiting body, so that carries the spores.
Those are all mushrooms, if you will.
Those are all fruiting bodies.
As the spore gets into the air and as the air moves, it can easily take it to different places.
So this is why we think that the summiting behavior is actually helping the fungus to spread its spores.
See the spore cloud, those are a lot of spores. [laughs] This one would be exuding spores like crazy, looks, you know, very similar to what we envision the spores would look like.
They're microscopically small so we can hardly see them but people that recorded spores coming from mushrooms, that's kind of what it looks like.
[Narrator] According to a recent World Health Organization report, fungal infections are estimated to kill at least 1.6 million people yearly.
Aspergillus Fumigatus can even spread to the brain of the immunocompromised.
Other fungal pathogens are even showing resistance in settings like hospitals.
Should we be worried? Most of the fungi that we know of at least, they like to grow at a lower temperatures than our body temperature.
Our bodies are just not great hosts to infect because the temperature would be too high.
However, in climate change and the Earth's getting warmer, fungi need to adapt to be able to grow at higher temperatures as well.
Their optimal temperature will become closer to our body temperature, making it more likely that in the future we'll have more fungal infections.
[Narrator] Yikes. But there is one reason why all of humanity isn't likely to be wiped out by a mutant zombie fungus apocalypse.
Like in The Last of Us.
In the game and in this show what you see is that humanity is under brink of being extinct there and aren't that many humans left.
That's actually not a very smart strategy.
If you wipe out your host entirely, then eventually there's no hosts to infect so it will stop to exist as well.
There's so much more going on that we don't understand quite yet.
We also interact with a lot of microbes and a lot of organisms that are beneficial to us.
Our microbiome has influence on a lot of our physiology that leads to certain behaviors.
So who would we be without our parasites? Who would we beat without our microbes? I think it's a very interesting philosophical question.
How the Disco Clam Uses Light to Fight Super-Strong Predators Architect Explains How Homes Could be 3D Printed on Mars and Earth Scientist Explains How Rare Genetics Allow Some to Sleep Only 4 Hours a Night Scientist Explains Unsinkable Metal That Could Prevent Disasters at Sea Is Invisibility Possible? An Inventor and a Physicist Explain Scientist Explains Why Her Lab Taught Rats to Drive Tiny Cars Mycologist Explains How a Slime Mold Can Solve Mazes How the Two-Hour Marathon Limit Was Broken Research Suggests Cats Like Their Owners as Much as Dogs Researcher Explains Deepfake Videos Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese Hurricane Hunter Explains How They Track and Predict Hurricanes Scientist Explains Viral Fish Cannon Video A Biohacker Explains Why He Turned His Leg Into a Hotspot Scientist Explains What Water Pooling in Kilauea's Volcanic Crater Means Bill Nye Explains the Science Behind Solar Sailing Vision Scientist Explains Why These Praying Mantises Are Wearing 3D Glasses Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology Scientist's Map Explains Climate Change Scientist Explains How Moon Mining Would Work Scientist Explains How She Captured Rare Footage of a Giant Squid Doctor Explains How Sunscreen Affects Your Body Stranger Things is Getting a New Mall! But Today Malls Are Dying. What Happened? The Limits of Human Endurance Might Be Our Guts Meet the First College Students to Launch a Rocket Into Space Scientist Explains Why Dogs Can Smell Better Than Robots A Harvard Professor Explains What the Avengers Can Teach Us About Philosophy NASA Twin Study: How Space Changes Our Bodies What the Black Hole Picture Means for Researchers Scientist Explains How to Levitate Objects With Sound Why Scientists and Artists Want The Blackest Substances on Earth Biologist Explains How Drones Catching Whale "Snot" Helps Research Researcher Explains Why Humans Can't Spot Real-Life Deepfake Masks Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About The Coronavirus VFX Artist Breaks Down This Year's Best Visual Effects Nominees How Doctors on Earth Treated a Blood Clot in Space Scientist Explains Why Some Cats Eat Human Corpses Voting Expert Explains How Voting Technology Will Impact the 2020 Election Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About Pandemics ER Doctor Explains How They're Handling Covid-19 Why This Taste Map Is Wrong Q&A: What's Next for the Coronavirus Pandemic? Why Captive Tigers Can’t Be Reintroduced to the Wild How Covid-19 Immunity Compares to Other Diseases 5 Mistakes to Avoid as We Try to Stop Covid-19 How This Emergency Ventilator Could Keep Covid-19 Patients Alive Why NASA Made a Helicopter for Mars Theoretical Physicist Breaks Down the Marvel Multiverse Former NASA Astronaut Explains Jeff Bezos's Space Flight Physics Student Breaks Down Gymnastics Physics What Do Cities Look Like Under a Microscope? Inside the Largest Bitcoin Mine in The U.S.
How Caffeine Has Fueled History How Mushroom Time-Lapses Are Filmed Why You’ll Fail the Milk Crate Challenge Why Vegan Cheese Doesn't Melt How 250 Cameras Filmed Neill Blomkamp's Demonic How Meme Detectives Stop NFT Fraud How Disney Designed a Robotic Spider-Man How Online Conspiracy Groups Compare to Cults Dune Costume Designers Break Down Dune’s Stillsuits Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' Why Scientists Are Stress Testing Tardigrades Every Prototype that Led to a Realistic Prosthetic Arm Why the Toilet Needs an Upgrade How Animals Are Evolving Because of Climate Change How Stop-Motion Movies Are Animated at Aardman Astronomer Explains How NASA Detects Asteroids Are We Living In A Simulation? Inside the Journey of a Shipping Container (And Why the Supply Chain Is So Backed Up) The Science of Slow Aging How Nose Swabs Detect New Covid-19 Strains Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes The Science Behind Elon Musk’s Neuralink Brain Chip Every Prototype to Make a Humanoid Robot Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work A Timeline of Russian Cyberattacks on Ukraine VFX Artist Breaks Down Oscar-Nominated CGI Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now We Invented the Perfect WIRED Autocomplete Glue How Everything Everywhere All at Once's Visual Effects Were Made How Dogs Coevolved with Humans How an Architect Redesigns NYC Streets Viking Expert Breaks Down The Northman Weapons J. Kenji López-Alt Breaks Down the Science of Stir-Fry How A.I. Is Changing Hollywood How Trash Goes From Garbage Cans to Landfills Veterinarian Explains How to Prevent Pet Separation Anxiety The Science Behind Genetically Modified Mosquitoes How Scientists & Filmmakers Brought Prehistoric Planet's Dinosaurs to Life All the Ways Google Gets Street View Images How Public Cameras Recognize and Track You How the Nuro Robotic Delivery Car Was Built Biologist Explains the Unexpected Origins of Feathers in Fashion Surgeons Break Down Separating Conjoined Twins Former Air Force Pilot Breaks Down UFO Footage Bug Expert Explains Why Cicadas Are So Loud The Best of CES 2021 Health Expert Explains What You Need to Know About Quarantines Scientist Explains How People Might Hibernate Like Bears Could a Chernobyl Level Nuclear Disaster Happen in the US? Neuroscientist Explains ASMR's Effects on the Brain & The Body Why Top Scientists Are Pretending an Asteroid is Headed for Earth Epidemiologist Answers Common Monkeypox Questions Bill Nye Breaks Down Webb Telescope Space Images How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Every Trick a Pro GeoGuessr Player Uses to Win How NASA Biologists Plan to Grow Plants on the Moon How FIFA Graphics & Gameplay Are Evolving (1993 - 2023) How a Vet Performs Dangerous Surgeries on Wild Animals This Heart is Not Human How Entomologists Use Insects to Solve Crimes Former NASA Astronaut Breaks Down a Rocket Launch Chess Pro Explains How to Spot Cheaters Why Billionaires Are Actually Ruining the Economy How to Keep Your New Year’s Resolutions for More Than a Week The Biology Behind The Last of Us English Teacher Grades Homework By ChatGPT All the Ways a Cold Plunge Affects the Body Spy Historian Debunks Chinese Spy Balloon Theories A.I. Tries 20 Jobs | WIRED Mathematician Breaks Down the Best Ways to Win the Lottery Why Music Festivals Sound Better Than Ever Pro Interpreters vs. AI Challenge: Who Translates Faster and Better? Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
