Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons WIRED and CBS Sports Double TV Giveaway - Official Sweepstakes Rules Administrator & Sponsor CBS Interactive Inc. (" CBSI "), 680 Folsom St, San Francisco, CA 94103.
Sponsor: Condé Nast (“ Wired ”) at One World Trade Center, New York, NY 10007.
Prize Provider: TCL North America (“ TCL North America ”), 1860 Compton Ave., Corona, CA 92881 Sweepstakes Entities: CBSI, Wired, TCL North America and Sideqik, 590 Means St NW #260, Atlanta, GA 30318 (the sweepstakes platform provider).
THIS SWEEPSTAKES IS NOT SPONSORED, ENDORSED, RESPONSIBLE OR ADMINISTERED BY FACEBOOK, X (AKA TWITTER), INSTAGRAM, APPLE, TIKTOK OR YOUTUBE.
1. Acceptance of Rules. By entering the " WIRED and CBS Sports Double TV Giveaway " (the " Sweepstakes ") operated on cbssports.com, (the " CBSI Service "), you hereby accept and agree to these official rules (the " Official Rules ") of this Sweepstakes and the decisions of the Administrator in connection with this Sweepstakes, whose decisions are final.
No purchase, entry fee or use of a wireless device is necessary to enter or win. If you are a wireless service subscriber and have a smartphone, tablet or other wireless device that allows you access to the Internet, you may also enter this Sweepstakes via any of those devices during the Promotion Period (as defined below). If you chose to access this Sweepstakes via any of those wireless devices, you may be charged data rates in accordance to the Terms and Conditions of the Service Agreement with your carrier.
2. Eligibility. This Sweepstakes is offered and open to persons who are: (a) legal residents of the United States, excludes residents of P.R. and all the Territories and Possessions of the U.S.; (b) at least 18 years old or age of majority, whichever is older in their state of residence, at the date of entry in this Sweepstakes. Employees, directors, and immediate family members of the Sweepstakes Entities and their parents, affiliated and subsidiary companies, advertising and promotion agencies and legal and financial advisors are not eligible to participate in this Sweepstakes. For purpose of the foregoing, " immediate family " means parents, spouses, children, siblings or any members of the same households of such employees and directors. This Sweepstakes is void where prohibited by law.
3. Entering the Sweepstakes: To receive an entry into the Sweepstakes, users need to: (i) access, during the Promotion Period, the Sweepstakes application found on the CBSI Service, accessible at https://www.cbssports.com/promotions/double-tv-giveaway/ or the Wired.com service found at https://www.wired.com/story/tcl-q-series-giveaway-2023 [1] ( ii) sign up for the Sweepstakes by providing name, email address state where you reside and your date of birth; (iii) become a Registered User; (iv) agree to these Official Rules; and (v) hit the "Submit" button. For purposes of these Official Rules, " Registered User " means a person who successfully completes the Sweepstakes entry form on the CBSI Service, including becoming a registered user of the CBSSports.com website and accepting receipt of the: (a) CBS Sports newsletter(s) and the (b) Contest newsletter. There is no cost to register to the CBSSports.com website and/or to receive such newsletter(s), and participants can unsubscribe from receiving the newsletter(s) at any time.
NOTE: For purposes of clarity, entries are being collected by CBSSports.com and is subject to the Paramount Privacy Policy.
Participants may receive additional entries into the Sweepstakes by performing any or all of the following thirteen (13) different action(s): a) Acquire 4 additional entries by downloading the CBS Sports App at https://cbs-sports.app.link/1AJjcK2Z b) Acquire 2 additional entries by subscribing to CBS Sports on YouTube at https://www.youtube.com/cbssports c) Acquire 1 additional entry by following CBS Sports on Instagram at https://www.instagram/cbssports d) Acquire 1 additional entry by following CBS Sports on X (AKA Twitter) https://twitter.com/cbssports e) Acquire 1 additional entry by following CBS Sports on Tik Tok at https://www.tiktok.com/@cbssports f) Acquire 4 additional entry by visiting WIRED's Amazon Storefront at https://amzn.to/3FoMfVP g) Acquire 4 additional entries by visiting to WIRED's Buying Guides at https://www.wired.com/category/gear/buying-guides/?utm_campaign=tclgiveaway h) Acquire 1 additional entry by “Liking” WIRED on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/wired i) Acquire 1 additional entry by following WIRED on Instagram at https://www.instagram.com/wired/ j) Acquire 1 additional entry by following WIRED on X aka Twitter at https://twitter.com/WIRED k) Acquire 2 additional by subscribing to WIRED's Gift Guide newsletter at https://www.wired.com/newsletter/gift-guide?sourceCode=SweepstakesTCL l) Acquire 4 additional entries by subscribing to WIRED’s Deals newsletter at https://www.wired.com/newsletter/deals?sourceCode=SweepstakesTCL m) Acquire 4 additional entries by subscribing to WIRED Daily newsletter at https://www.wired.com/newsletter/daily?sourceCode=SweepstakesTCL Limit of thirty-one (31) entries per person during the Promotion Period.
4.. Promotion Period. The Sweepstakes begins at 12:00 p.m. Eastern Time (“ ET ”) on November 13, 2023 and ends at 11:59 p.m. ET on December 15, 2023.
5. Prizes. The Sweepstakes will award two (2) grand prizes (the " Prizes "). Each Prize consists of one (1) TCL 65-inch Q CLASS 4K QLED HDR SMART TV WITH GOOGLE TV. The approximate retail value (“ ARV ”) of each Prize is Six Hundred Ninety-Nine Dollars (US$699.00). Total ARV of all Prizes to be awarded in this promotion is One Thousand Three Hundred Ninety-Eight Dollars (US$1,398.00).
6. Prize Restrictions, Prize(s) is nontransferable. All income and other taxes are the sole responsibility of the Winner (as defined below). No assignment, transfer, conversion to cash or cash redemption or substitution of any Prize or any portion of the Prize is permitted, except Sponsor reserves the right to substitute a Prize or any of its components with a prize of comparable or greater value should the Prize or any of its components become unavailable or for any other reason needs to be exchanged. Prize(s) is solely for personal use and may not be used in conjunction with any other promotion. All Prize details are at the sole discretion of the Sweepstakes Entities.
7. Odds/Drawings/Winner Notification. Odds of winning a Prize depends on the number of eligible entries received during the Promotion Period. On or about December 18, 2023, the Prize drawings will be conducted at random by Administrator, whose decisions are final and binding in all respects. The potential winners (the " Winner(s) ") will be notified by email. Potential Winner(s) will be asked to provide their personal information, such as their name, physical address, date of birth and phone number in order to confirm eligibility and compliance with these Official Rules. If no contact has been made with a potential Winner after a reasonable effort has been made during three (3) business days from the first notification attempt, Administrator will select an alternate potential Winner, as specified above. Administrator will select up to two (s) alternates per prize. Unclaimed Prize(s) will not be awarded.
8. Prize Taxes. All federal, state, local other tax liabilities arising from this Sweepstakes, including, without limitation, winning a Prize, will be the sole responsibility of each Winner.
9. Affidavit of Eligibility/Liability Release and Publicity Release. Winner(s) will be required to complete, execute and return an Affidavit of Eligibility/Liability Release, and where lawful, a Publicity Release (collectively, the " Release Forms "), as well as a W-9 tax form within five (5) days of notification of winning. Failure to return Release Forms timely, or if Prize notification or a Prize is returned as non-deliverable, or if a Winner is found not to be eligible or not in compliance with these Official Rules, may result in disqualification with an alternate Winner selected in accordance with these Official Rules.
10. Publicity Release Terms. Except where prohibited by law, a Winner's acceptance of the Prize constitutes permission for the Sweepstakes Entities to use Winner's name, photograph, likeness, statements, biographical information, voice, and address (city and state) worldwide and in all forms of media, in perpetuity, without further compensation.
11. Improper Conduct. Administrator, in its sole discretion, may disqualify any entrant from participation in or use of any or all portions of this Sweepstakes, and refuse to award a Prize, if the Winner engages in any conduct Administrator deems to be improper, unfair or otherwise adverse to the operation of the Sweepstakes or detrimental to other entrants of the Sweepstakes. Such improper conduct includes, without limitation, falsifying personal information required during entrant registration or Prize claim, violating any term or condition stated herein, accumulating entries through methods such as automated computer scripts or any other programming techniques, allowing others to use entrant's personal information for the purpose of accumulating entries, or intentionally trying to defraud, reverse engineer, disassemble or otherwise tamper with the computer programs in connection with this Sweepstakes. Winner agrees that Administrator may void a Prize or any part of a Prize that a Winner may have won and/or require the return of a Prize or any part of a Prize that a Winner may have won as a result of such improper conduct. Winner(s) further acknowledge(s) that any forfeiture of a Prize and/or return of a Prize shall in no way prevent Administrator from pursuing other avenues of recourse, such as criminal or civil proceedings in connection with such conduct. WARNING: ANY ATTEMPT TO DELIBERATELY DAMAGE OR UNDERMINE THE LEGITIMATE OPERATION OF THIS SWEEPSTAKES MAY BE A VIOLATION OF CRIMINAL AND CIVIL LAWS, AND SHOULD SUCH AN ATTEMPT BE MADE, EACH OF THE SWEEPSTAKES ENTITIES RESERVES THE RIGHT TO SEEK DAMAGES OR OTHER REMEDIES FROM ANY SUCH PERSON(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR SUCH ATTEMPT TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW.
12. Integrity of Sweepstakes. If, for any reason, the Sweepstakes is not capable of running as planned by reason of infection by computer virus, worms, bugs, tampering, unauthorized intervention, fraud, technical failures, or any other causes which Administrator, in its sole opinion believes could corrupt or affect the administration, security, fairness, integrity or proper conduct of this Sweepstakes, Administrator reserves the right at its sole discretion to cancel, terminate, modify or suspend this Sweepstakes and select the Winner(s) from entries received prior to the action taken or in such other manner as Administrator may deem fair and appropriate.
13. Lost or Corrupted Entries. The Sweepstakes Entities and their parents, affiliated and subsidiary companies and advertising and promotion agencies, assume no liability and are not responsible for, and you hereby forever waive any rights to any claim in connection with, lost, late, incomplete, corrupted, stolen, misdirected, illegible or postage-due entries or mail, if applicable; or for any computer, telephone, cable, network, satellite, electronic or Internet hardware or software malfunctions, unauthorized human intervention, or the incorrect or inaccurate capture of entry or other information, or the failure to capture any such information. The Sweepstakes Entities and their parents, affiliated and subsidiary companies and advertising and promotion agencies, are not responsible for any incorrect or inaccurate information, whether caused by registration information submitted by end users or tampering, hacking or by any of the equipment or programming associated with or utilized in this Sweepstakes, and assumes no responsibility for any error, omission, interruption, deletion, defect, delay in operation or transmission, communications line failure, theft or destruction or unauthorized access to the Sweepstakes.
14. Damaged Property. The Sweepstakes Entities and their parents, affiliated and subsidiary companies and advertising and promotion agencies, assume no liability and are not responsible for, and you hereby forever waive any rights to any claim in connection with, injury or damage to any entrants or to any other person's computer or property related to or resulting from participating in this Sweepstakes or downloading materials from this Sweepstakes.
15. Sweepstakes Errors. The Sweepstakes Entities and their parents, affiliated and subsidiary companies and advertising and promotion agencies, assume no liability and are not responsible for, and you hereby forever waive any rights to any claim in connection with errors and/or ambiguity: (a) in the Sweepstakes; (b) in any related advertising or promotions of this Sweepstakes; and/or (c) in these Official Rules. In the event of any ambiguity(s) or error(s) in these Official Rules, Administrator reserves the right to modify these Official Rules for clarification purposes or to correct any such ambiguity(s) or error(s) without materially affecting the terms and conditions of the Sweepstakes.
16. Prize(s) and Winner(s). The Sweepstakes Entities and their parents, affiliated and subsidiary companies and advertising and promotion agencies, assume no liability and are not responsible for, and you/entrant hereby forever waive any rights to any claim in connection with, the selection and announcement of the Winner(s), the distribution of the Prize(s), the acceptance/possession and/or use/misuse of any part of a Prize and/or any injury or damage to any entrant's or third person's property related to or resulting from any part of a Prize or any part of this Sweepstakes.
17. Release and Indemnity. Each entrant in this Sweepstakes, including, without limitation, the Winner(s), hereby releases and agrees to hold harmless the Sweepstakes Entities and their parents, affiliates, subsidiaries, advertising and promotion agencies and their respective directors, officers, employees, representatives and agents from any and all liability for any injuries, loss or damage of any kind to person, including death, and property, arising in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, from acceptance, possession, use or misuse of a Prize, participation in this Sweepstakes and participation in any activity related to this Sweepstakes.
18. Limitation of Liability. IN NO EVENT WILL THE SWEEPSTAKES ENTITIES, THEIR PARENTS, AFFILIATES, SUBSIDIARIES AND RELATED COMPANIES, THEIR ADVERTISING OR PROMOTION AGENCIES OR THEIR RESPECTIVE OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, REPRESENTATIVES AND AGENTS, BE RESPONSIBLE OR LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OR LOSSES OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF YOUR ACCESS TO AND USE OF THE SWEEPSTAKES OR THE DOWNLOADING FROM AND/OR PRINTING MATERIAL DOWNLOADED FROM THE SWEEPSTAKES. SOME JURISDICTIONS MAY NOT ALLOW THE LIMITATIONS OR EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY FOR INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES, SO SOME OF THE ABOVE LIMITATIONS OR EXCLUSIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. CHECK YOUR LOCAL LAWS FOR ANY RESTRICTIONS OR LIMITATIONS REGARDING THESE LIMITATIONS OR EXCLUSIONS.
19. Disclaimer of Warranties. THE SWEEPSTAKES AND PRIZE(S) ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
20. Identity Disputes. In the event of a dispute as to the identity of a winner based on an email address, the winning entry will be declared made by the Authorized Account Holder of the email address submitted at time of entry. For purposes of these Official Rules, " Authorized Account Holder " is defined as the natural person who is assigned to an email address by an Internet access provider, online service provider or other organization (e.g., business, educational, institution, etc.) that is responsible for assigning email addresses for the domain associated with the submitted email address.
21. Binding Arbitration. The parties waive all rights to trial in any action or proceeding instituted in connection with these Official Rules and/or this Sweepstakes. Any controversy or claim, arising out of, or relating to, these Official Rules and/or this Sweepstakes shall be settled by binding arbitration in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of JAMS. Any such controversy or claim shall be arbitrated on an individual basis and shall not be consolidated in any arbitration with any claim or controversy of any other party. The arbitration shall be conducted in the State of California, in the City of San Francisco and judgment on the arbitration award may be entered into any court having jurisdiction thereof.
22. Governing Law and Jurisdiction: This promotion is governed by U.S. law and is subject to all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations. Void where prohibited by law. All issues and questions concerning the construction, validity, interpretation and enforceability of these Official Rules, or the rights and obligations of entrant and Administrator in connection with this Sweepstakes, shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California, U.S.A. without giving effect to the conflict of laws and rules thereof, and any matters or proceedings which are not subject to arbitration as set forth in Section 21 of these Official Rules and/or for entering any judgment on an arbitration award, shall take place in the federal and/or state courts of the State of California, San Francisco County 23. Winner's List/Official Rules. For the name of the Winner(s), send a self-addressed stamped envelope for receipt by December 31, 2023 to " Winner's List , " WIRED and CBS Sports Double TV Giveaway " c/o CBS Sports, a Division of CBS Interactive, Inc., 1401 W. Cypress Creek Road, Suite 200, Fort Lauderdale, FL 33309. For Official Rules, send a self-addressed stamped envelope to the above address marked " Official Rules, WIRED and CBS Sports Double TV Giveaway " for receipt by December 31, 2023. Residents of VT may omit postage on the self-addressed envelope. The name of the Winner may be posted, and the Official Rules will be posted on the CBSI Service.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
