Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Medea Giordano Jaina Grey Gear The Best Weighted Blankets for Calm and Comfort Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Before You Buy Read more The Best Weighted Blanket $47.97 at Amazon The Best Open-Knit Design $269 at Bearaby A Textured Runner-Up $169 at Brooklinen I am nothing if not anxious. Whether it's something in particular or just a general, constant feeling of panic, I'm always looking for products and tactics to help bring me back to Earth. Sleeping is hard too, sometimes because of that anxiety and sometimes because the sheets are touching me in the wrong way, making me itchy and uncomfortable. For both things, being smushed under a 20-pound weighted blanket or compressed into a body-sized sock (more on that later) seems to help.
Touch releases oxytocin in your brain. This hormone contributes to our overall well-being and our ability to handle stress.
 It's one of the reasons why we swaddle newborns. But we don't always have someone to squeeze us. Weighted blankets use pressure to simulate the feeling of being gently held. It's similar to the hug machine , invented by Temple Grandin , that uses pressure to calm those on the autism spectrum who don't like physical touch from others. Full disclosure: If you suspect that you have a neurological or mood disorder, you should consult your doctor.
We've tested several blankets, robes, and other weighted accessories. Here are the best. Be sure to check out our other guides , including our roundup of products to help people go to sleep , the best sound machines , and the best sunrise alarm clocks.
Updated October 2023: Our former top pick, Yaasa, is no longer available in the US. We've removed it from this guide. We've also added a knit blanket from Quince and a new compression wrap from Hug Sleep.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.
com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Anna Efetova/Getty Images Before You Buy How to Choose the Right Weight Consider the cost.
Weighted blankets are usually very expensive. There are a few affordable options that we recommend, but there is also a lot of junk. If you can get a prescription from a doctor, your insurance might cover the cost, but it might be a fight. Some health savings accounts can be used to purchase weighted blankets.
Think about material.
Do you sleep hot? You probably don't want a super-plush blanket. Opt for an open knit or cool cotton.
Choose your weight.
Most companies advise that the weight should be around 10 percent of your body weight; for example, if you're 150 pounds, that would be a 15-pound blanket. But we often wanted a much heavier blanket. The 10 percent rule is just a guide. Do you like to be tightly cuddled while you sleep? You probably can go with a heavier blanket. Kids or elderly folks should go with something lighter.
What about the size? The bigger the blanket, generally the less heavy it feels, because the weight is distributed over a larger area. So a 12-pound throw might feel more weighty than a 15-pound queen-size blanket.
Who shouldn't use a weighted blanket? Babies, animals, or anyone who can't physically remove it. If you or a family member has a motor impairment, compression shirts may give you the same result—consider talking to a doctor. We also an option from Hug Sleep.
Photograph: Gravity The Best Weighted Blanket Basics by Gravity Blanket Gravity is one of the best-known names in this category, and up until it released this budget blanket, its only options were expensive. This Basics by Gravity blanket is cheaper than nearly every other blanket I tried, but there are no detectable differences.
It's 15 pounds and is made from nice, cool cotton. You can get a cheap cover , and they feel crisp and cool too. Adding a cover isn't necessary to any blanket, but it's not a bad idea, because washing a weighted blanket can be a chore. Gravity offers returns within 30 days.
Available in 15 pounds ★ More from Gravity: Gravity's original weighted blanket goes for $250 to $300 and has 15-, 20-, and 35-pound options in different sizes. There are pretty colors available and they're all nice and velvety.
Gravity's Flex Travel Blanket for $50 is a small 10-pound blanket that folds up into its included bag. It's a bit noisy, like the material of a sleeping bag.
$47.97 at Amazon $48 at Gravity Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Bearaby The Best Open-Knit Design Bearaby Tree Napper I love open-knit designs for weighted blankets. They allow air to circulate, so you shouldn't feel like you're heating up, and they also tend to look nicer draped over the couch. They also don't use beads as filling to make them heavy, so if anything rips, you won't be cleaning up nearly invisible filling forever.
The Bearaby Tree Napper comes in three weight options and beautiful colors, and the plant-based Tencel fiber is biodegradable. It's also machine washable. The brand has other open-knit blankets made from things like cotton or velvet instead of Tencel. Bearaby offers returns within 30 days , as long as the blanket hasn't been washed.
Available in 15, 20, or 25 pounds ★ Another knit blanket: Quince's Knit Weighted Blanket for $150 costs less than Bearaby but is as high-quality and uses a recycled polyester fill. There's just one, 15-pound weight option, and it's a bit more rigid. I like both, but people either really love or really hate it. If you want a drapey blanket, go with Bearaby. Quince also makes some of our favorite sheets.
$269 at Bearaby Photograph: Brooklinen A Textured Runner-Up Brooklinen Weighted Throw Blanket If you want a traditional blanket over an open-knit one and you can spend more than the Basics by Gravity, consider Brooklinen's. One side has a nice texture to it that I can only describe as a cat magnet. Seriously, my cats surrounded me the moment I put this on my bed (that's a good thing). It lulls me right to sleep.
It comes in great colors to match a number of beddings or living room furniture—the deep alpine color I tried is gorgeous. This weighted throw is slightly larger than the Baloo below, at 48 inches wide instead of 42. Brooklinen's return policy gives you an entire year to decide whether this blanket is for you, but you have to pay a $10 return fee.
Available in 12 pounds $169 at Brooklinen $169 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Luna The Most Sizes and Weights (and Good for Kids) Luna The Luna is made of crisp cotton and has more weight options and sizes than any of the blankets we looked at, not to mention nice colors and designs. There are also a number of kid-specific weights and designs.
 The entire thing can be machine washed, but there are also separate covers you can take off and wash instead.
It's not expensive either, and you'll see some price variation based on retailer or color. And because there are so many sizes and weight options, you can pick what your budget allows. Luna takes returns, though it has a $15 processing fee , and the blanket needs to be in its original packaging.
Available in 5, 7, 10, 12, 15, 20, 25, or 30 pounds and many sizes ★ A plush option from Luna: The brand's newest double-sided sherpa throw for $85 is incredibly soft and just heavy enough for its size at 10 pounds. It's machine washable too.
$72 at Amazon $77 at Luna $40 at Luna (Kids) Photograph: Bearaby A Knitted Kids Blanket Bearaby Nappling Luna's kids blankets are cheaper, come in more options, and work great. But if you're drawn to the knitted style of Yaasa's and Bearaby's blankets, the latter offers this cute Nappling version for kids. It's also a good size for couch lounging or sleeping with a partner who doesn't like weighted blankets.
Available in 6 or 8 pounds $139 at Bearaby $140 at Nordstrom Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Baloo A Weighted Throw Baloo Weighted Throw I love this throw blanket. The 12 pounds feel sufficiently heavy given its small size, and it's not too thick or too hot. It's perfect if you share a bed with someone who doesn't like weighted blankets, because it covers just one of you. It's also good for moving around the house—the Yaasa isn't as easy to transport and store just anywhere because of how thick it is.
I like the crispy cool feel of its cotton, and Baloo Living has linen duvet covers if you want to avoid washing the entire blanket—though it can be machine-washed and dried. We tested the throw, but the company has other sizes and weights. You can get your blanket monogrammed, but you won't be able to return it for any reason if you do.
Available in 12 (throw), 15, 20, or 25 pounds ★ A mini alternative: Baloo's throw measures 42 by 72 inches, but if you want something a little lighter and smaller, its Mini Blanket for $149 comes in at 40 by 60 and weighs just 9 pounds. It's a pleasure to sleep with. We also recommend the brand's lap blanket below.
$179 at Amazon $179 at Baloo Living Photograph: Nodpod Mini Weighted Pads Weighted Lap Blankets Sometimes you don't want an entire blanket, but you still crave that weight. I've tried and recommend both Nodpod's Body ($88) and Baloo's Daydreamer Lap Blanket ($88) for those moments. They remind me of the lead aprons that dentists put on you while they X-ray your teeth, but in a good way.
Nodpod's Body weighs 6.5 pounds, and has one super soft microfleece side and one side a cool cotton. Not sure if it's for you? You can return it within 30 days.
 Baloo's is 8 pounds and can also be returned within 30 days.
 I use them at my desk, or just to cover some of me at night, especially when it's hot. Their compactness makes them feel perfectly heavy, and it means I can also bring them into the office or on road trips.
★ An aromatherapy apron: Yogibo's Ms. Bliss Aroma Weighted Blanket for $59 is a mini, 4-pound apron filled with rice, lavender, and peppermint. It offers a little weight, but the best part is that you can heat the blanket (sans cover) in the microwave to activate its aromatherapy scents.
$88 at Baloo $88 at Amazon (NodPod Body) Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Nodpod An Eye Mask Nodpod Weighted Eye Mask Nodpod's weighted sleep mask isn't heavy at just 9 ounces, but the extra weight feels amazing to wrap around your head at night. I usually don't like sleeping with something on my face, but this helped me drift away to dreamland, especially on those nights when I couldn't peel my eyes away from a screen.
I suffer from migraines, so being able to shut out any light with just a bit of weight truly helped for the days when it just wouldn't go away. You can put it in the freezer too, which is great, but I do wish it was microwavable. Like the Nopod Body above, the mask can be returned within 30 days if you don't like it.
Available in 9 ounces $34 at Amazon $34 at Nodpod Photograph: Brian Mundt/Hug Sleep For Compression Instead Hug Sleep Sleep Pod If you've ever looked at a swaddled baby and felt jealous, the Sleep Pod is for you. It takes the idea of a weighted blanket—using deep-touch pressure therapy to comfort you—without the actual weight and heat associated with them. Instead, the stretchy material comfortably clings to you like a soft hug. It's machine washable, and because it's not as bulky and heavy as a blanket, you can take it with you when traveling.
I (Medea) loved every moment I spent fully cocooned inside—it was very soothing and comforting, much more than I thought it could be. Jaina says it's too constricting for her, so, like with weighted blankets, it comes down to personal preference. The fabric quickly started to pill where my feet rubbed against it, which is disappointing, though I think getting a larger size might eliminate that issue. Since testing, the company has released a Move version with an opening to put your feet out. There's a 30-day return policy if you want to try it before committing.
★ More from Hug Sleep: The newest Hug Wrap is a compression option more like a traditional blanket so you don't have to get in it like the Sleep Pod. There's a hood and little handles to use to wrap it around yourself. It comes in two sizes, and I found the regular size to be too small to really wrap around myself—smaller people and kids may like this one. The oversized wrap for $110 was much better.
$90 at Hug Sleep (Sleep Pod) $100 at Hug Sleep (Sleep Pod Move) Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Quiet Mind A Weighted Pillow Quiet Mind The Original Weighted Pillow You might be questioning how a weighted pillow could help, but this isn't for resting your head on—though it is incredibly comfortable to do so. Quiet Mind's pillow is for placing on your lap while you work or meditate, or hugging close to your body when you need a minute to relax. However you hold it, it produces the same deep-pressure therapy as a weighted blanket does to help you calm down.
The pillow comes in three sizes and weights. I tried the medium-sized, 9-pound pillow, and it was perfectly heavy for me. Anything more in such a small package would have been too much. There is a size chart based on your weight on the product page, and the brand recommends sizing down if you're unsure. You can exchange it for another size should you need it.
Available in 6, 9, or 12 pounds $169 at Quiet Mind (6 lbs) Photograph: Thera The Best Weighted Robe Therarobe You know the feeling of getting into bed after a long, tiring day, and your body feels heavy in the best way—like you could fall asleep in a second? That's how I feel when I put the Therarobe on. It's not quite as soft as its super-soft blanket, but it's still very nice to wear.
This thing is heavy. Don't put it on and expect to clean your house. Put it on, lay on the couch or your bed (maybe turn on a sound machine ), and let your body relax. Like some blankets, the robe is sewn in a grid, with each square full of tiny glass beads. This way, the weight is evenly distributed and won't ball to one side and knock you over. There is a kids version available.
 Like Thera's blanket, you can machine-wash it, but lay it flat to dry (it's big, so it might take awhile).
Available in 8 (kids), 12 (S/M), 15 (L/XL), or 17 (XXL) pounds ★ A weighted hoodie we love: WIRED writer Brenda Stolyar uses Thera's weighted hoodie.
 Like the robe, it's too heavy to wear while running errands, but it was nice for relaxing after a stressful day. She tried the super-soft version, but there is a fleece hoodie available too.
$249 at Thera (Adult) $199 at Thera (Kids) Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Gravity Blanket More Weighted Blankets We Love Honorable Mentions As weighted blankets gain popularity, more and more companies pop up with options. Most of the ones we've tried are worth recommending, including all the ones here.
Tranquility Cooling Weighted Blanket for $40-$50 : A lot of budget weighted blankets are disappointing. This one, though, genuinely surprised me. Unfortunately, it's nearly always out of stock. If you can find it, it feels great to cuddle up under, and it's sufficiently weighty. There's one soft side and a slinky cool side (that actually stays pretty cool as you lie with it).
Available in 15 or 20 pounds Thera Weighted Blanket for $79-$129 : We like a few products from Thera and this blanket might be the softest thing I've ever touched, like petting a furry animal. However, after my first few weeks with it, it ripped and let glass beads take over my bed like sand. I think kitty claws got the best of it, so keep that in mind and treat it carefully. It's returnable within 14 days if you aren't happy with it (minus the cost of shipping).
Available in 10, 12, or 15 pounds Aricove Weighted Blanket for $170-$200 : This is a fantastic cooling blanket to sleep with solo. It's nice and thin, so you won't feel trapped or too hot underneath. Aricove offers 30-day returns.
Available in 10, 12, 15, 17 20, or 22 pounds Casper Weighted Blanket for $169-$189 : Casper is another popular bedding brand whose blanket is that classic, cool cotton rather than knit or plush, which can get hot. About the size of a throw blanket, it's dense enough that even the lightest model gives you that comfortably squished feeling, while the heaviest is like a Thundershirt for humans. Casper offers 30-day returns.
Available in 10, 15, or 20 pounds Layla Weighted Blanket for $189-$239 : Most of our options come in several sizes, but Layla offers a king-sized version, if you'd like to cuddle with someone else. It is often discounted, and it can be returned within 120 days.
Available in 15, 20, or 25 pounds Yogibo Calm Antimicrobial Weighted Blanket for $159 : The actual blanket is cool cotton, but the real draw here is Yogibo's famous cotton and spandex blend it uses for its covers. The brand says it's insanely soft, and it isn't lying. It's stretchy and smooth and is machine washable (the actual blanket is not). I found that pet hair really clung to it, though, which is common with softer fabrics. It says it has an antimicrobial treatment to keep it “fresh longer." You can return it within 14 days.
Available in 15 pounds Gravid Weighted Blanket for $189-$199 : This blanket comes with either a plush or cooling cover (or both), and that is where it shines. There's nothing worse than a blanket cover with only a few attachment points, so that after a few minutes underneath, everything is twisted and off to one side. Gravid's cover attaches with a zipper that goes the entire length of the blanket. Why other brands don't do this is beyond me.
Available in 15 or 20 pounds Writer and Reviewer X Writer and Reviewer X Instagram Topics Shopping Sleep anxiety health buying guides Medea Giordano Brenda Stolyar Jaina Grey Scott Gilbertson Pia Ceres Medea Giordano Adrienne So WIRED Staff WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
