Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Genes I wish they would find Enough with the useless genes. Here are some that would actually come in handy.
By Sarah Cooper archive page 1) Knowing when I will need an umbrella; knowing when I will completely regret bringing an umbrella 2) Ability to talk my way out of a speeding ticket 3) Tolerance for small talk at networking events 4) Ability to mentally drown out the sound of my upstairs neighbor 5) Never late 6) Ability to talk my way up to first class 7) Perfect poker face 8) Jeans always fit perfectly 9) Eyes never closed in pictures 10) Ability to only eat one potato chip hide by Sarah Cooper Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window This story was part of our November/December 2018 issue.
Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Uncategorized The Download: how to fight pandemics, and a top scientist turned-advisor Plus: Humane's Ai Pin has been unveiled By Rhiannon Williams archive page The race to destroy PFAS, the forever chemicals Scientists are showing these damaging compounds can be beat.
By John Wiegand archive page How scientists are being squeezed to take sides in the conflict between Israel and Palestine Tensions over the war are flaring on social media—with real-life ramifications.
By Antonio Regalado archive page These new tools could make AI vision systems less biased Two new papers from Sony and Meta describe novel methods to make bias detection fairer.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
