Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Julian Chokkattu Gear The Best Electric Kick Scooters Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Best Overall $799 at Amazon Best Lightweight Scooter $1,190 at Unagi Best Budget Scooter $400 at Amazon My Favorite Electric Scooter $1,049 at MiniMotors USA Riding an electric kick scooter isn't the coolest way of getting around. There you are, standing stock-still and upright, gliding around like a meerkat on wheels. But reducing our reliance on gas-guzzling cars is cool and important.
 If bikes or electric bikes aren't your thing, escooters are another eco-friendly way to travel short distances without burning fossil fuel. They're easy to fold up, lighter than ebikes (usually), and you don't need to wait on public transportation.
We've spent nearly three years testing more than 35 electric scooters, and these are our favorites. There are a mind-melting number of companies and escooter models coming out every month. We're testing 'em as best as we can, so check back if you don't see a scooter you like. Need a helmet, bell, or phone mount? Our Best Biking Accessories guide has you covered.
Updated October 2023: We've mentioned the LaScoota X Pro.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get WIRED for just $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com , full Gear coverage, and subscriber-only newsletters. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Electric scooters will work a bit differently for everyone. That's because the rider's weight greatly impacts range and performance, as will the weather and road conditions. For reference, I'm a 6'4" human and I weigh around 240 pounds, which means if you are shorter and weigh less, you'll get longer range and potentially faster speeds out of some of these escooters.
Photograph: Niu Best Overall Niu KQi3 Pro My initial impressions of the KQi3 Pro weren't stellar. The first unit's clasp broke during shipping. After I unboxed my second one, I had to ride it for 500 meters at a purposefully slow pace in a “training mode" of sorts. Don't baby me! Niu must have sensed my shaking fists because it has since updated the firmware to reduce this distance to 200 meters, which is when you can unlock the full capabilities. You don't need to use the app, but it's useful to try at least once to set the level of regenerative braking you want, turn on cruise control, and set a custom speed mode.
Over many rides, I became quite fond of the KQi3 Pro. It offers some of the best range for the money. Despite riding over steep bridges around New York City, I frequently got around 15 miles out of it, but you can probably expect 18 to 20 miles (unless you're also a tall giant like me). It goes 20 miles per hour; the 9.5-inch tubeless tires offer a comfy ride; and the disc brakes reliably bring it to a quick stop. You get perks like a bell, lights, and space on the handlebar for attaching a phone mount too. I only wish the handlebars could fold down since they can snag on stair railings. It's super easy to fold, but you might have trouble carrying this 45-pound scooter for anything more than a few flights of stairs. Time to hit the gym.
★ Also consider: If you're in a particularly hilly area, you may want to upgrade to the newer Niu KQi3 Max ($849) ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ). It's practically the same, except it's a pound heavier, offers a more powerful 450-watt motor, and has a slightly larger battery for a tad more range.
$799 at Amazon $799 at Walmart Photograph: Unagi Scooters Best Lightweight Scooter Unagi Model One Voyager The Unagi Model One Voyager ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) is a slick scooter that weighs just 30 pounds, but it can hit a top speed of 15 miles per hour and can handle slopes pretty well. (You can unlock a 20-mph speed too.) I was able to eke out 10 miles of range out of it, but most people will be able to get a little more. Having such a lightweight vehicle makes it a great last-mile option when paired with public transportation. It's much easier to carry up or down flights of stairs, and it doesn't take much room on the train. It helps that the folding system is fast and simple too, and it recharges quickly (50 percent in one hour), so you can top it up while enjoying breakfast at the coffee shop. Downsides? Outside of the limited range, the 7.5-inch solid rubber tires don't do a great job of mitigating bumps and holes, so try to stick to flat roads. It's also expensive.
★ Also consider: The Fluidfreeride Fluid Mosquito ($849) ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) is 29 pounds and has a comfy grab handle built-in for easy toting. It's fast to fold and powerful, with a top speed of 24 mph. But shaving down the weight on this nimble scooter does have drawbacks. The suspension is just OK—you'll feel most of those bumps—and the wheels are narrow. The braking system works fine, but you might encounter some skidding if you make a sudden stop, and the range is lackluster (around 9 miles in my testing, going over the Brooklyn Bridge). There's also no easy way to change speed modes on the fly; you need to set it before you ride.
$1,190 at Unagi Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Segway Best Budget Scooter Segway E2 Plus The Segway E2 Plus isn't going to get you very far. I eked out less than 10 miles on a single charge (though most people are lighter than me and can get slightly more range). It's about 32 pounds and is easy to fold up and tote up and down some steps. It has a top speed of 15 mph, though that speed decreases on slight inclines; the 300-watt motor just isn't that powerful. The 8.1-inch tires are small and don't fare well on bumps and holes in the road, so the E2 Plus is ideal for anyone in flat areas with good road conditions.
Still, for its price, it's well built, handles wet conditions nicely without splattering mud all over your back, and the brakes come to a quick stop. I've used it to go to the drugstore, pick up groceries, and go to the barber, and it never failed me. The charger is light enough to carry, but just know that it takes 7.5 hours to get back to full. Also, as a safety precaution, you have to pair it with an app to unlock the full speed.
★ Also consider: The Gotrax Apex ($299) is similarly 32 pounds and easy to fold up. It has an integrated bell and a digital display that shows your speed and battery life, and it can go up to 15 mph. The Apex is reliable —I've gone to coffee shops, remote video shoots with a backpack full of camera gear, and the grocery store—though it's not the smoothest ride. The 250-watt motor struggles with any slight incline, and slopes drain the battery fast. The battery usually doled out around 9 miles for me. I'm also tall, and I had to constantly outstretch my arms to reach the handlebars. You'll want to tighten the rear disc brake; it works fine, but I wouldn't have minded more stopping power.
$400 at Amazon $400 at Best Buy $400 at Segway Photograph: Speedway My Favorite Electric Scooter Speedway Mini 4 Pro If I had to buy one scooter in this guide and money was no object, I'd pick the Speedway Mini 4 Pro ( 9/10, WIRED Recommends ). It has the best blend of range, speed, and weight. It can go up to 28 miles per hour, but you're better off sticking to the second mode that hovers around 18 to 20 mph. At that pace, I managed to get roughly 15 miles out of this thing going from Brooklyn to Manhattan over the bridge (again, I'm a giant, so you'll probably see better range). Best of all, it weighs just 36 pounds, is easy to fold, and the handlebars pack down too, making it compact and simple to carry at a moment's whim.
You get front and rear LEDs, but you'll need to supply your own bell. There's a little display by the right handlebar that shows speedometer data, but thankfully, there's no app to worry about. The only reason this isn't the top pick in this guide? It's pricier than the Niu.
$1,049 at MiniMotors USA Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Apollo Best Commuter Scooter Apollo Phantom V3 If range is your biggest concern, you should consider Apollo's Phantom V3 ( 9/10, WIRED Recommends ). I was able to take it on a 22-mile trip, and it had 43 percent left in the tank at the end—that's after climbing two different bridges! The Phantom can go up to 38 miles per hour (41 if you use the Ludo mode), but this is far too much. I instead restricted the speed to 20 mph using the companion app. Much more reasonable. The suspension is excellent, the brakes are strong, and it folds down pretty easily. You even get turn signals! On the downside, it weighs 77 pounds. It's not really something you want to carry up a flight of stairs every day.
Note: Apollo issued a recall on older Phantom models due to a faulty bolt that could separate the wheel and the suspension, and it's offering a replacement bolt with instructions to repair the scooter (you can also take it to an Apollo-approved service center or local dealer). The V3 is not a part of the recall.
★ Also consider: The Segway's P100S ($2,000) ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) is 73 pounds, and it has a max speed of 24 mph, so it's a little less intense than the Apollo. At that speed, I was easily able to get 16 miles in with 35 percent left in the tank. If you limit the speed to 20 via the app, you should easily be able to get close to 20 or 25 miles. I just hate the loud turn signal.
$2,199 at Apollo Scooters Photograph: MiniMotors USA For Insane Power and Range MiniMotors USA Dualtron Victor The same company behind the Speedway Mini 4 Pro—MiniMotors USA—is also the maker of the Dualtron Victor ( 9/10, WIRED Recommends ). It can hit nearly 50 miles per hour (yes, fifty ) and is heavy at 73 pounds. But it has amazing range. I rode from Williamsburg, Brooklyn, to Fort Lee, New Jersey, and back—the longest trip I've ever taken on an escooter (24 miles), and it had 30 percent left in the tank. Not having to worry about whether the scooter will die on your trip is seriously awesome.
I don't recommend you ride at the Victor's top speed (follow local speed laws), but if you limit it, you can extend the range even further. It has great suspension and hydraulic brakes that come to a stop quickly. Dualtron also sells accessories you can buy to adjust the handlebar height in case it's too short for you.
$2,699 at MiniMotors USA Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Navee Honorable Mentions Other Good Scooters I've tested a ton of scooters. Not all of them deserve a spot above, but some are still worth a mention. These are a few other good scooters I like: Gotrax GX2 for $1,499 : The GX2 is akin to the Apollo Phantom V3 and Segway P100S in that it's 76 pounds and packs a lot of power and range. This gunmetal scooter looks a bit like a Transformer and can hit a max speed of 35 mph via the dual 800-watt motors, but I usually rode it at 20 mph. It took me to midtown and back to Brooklyn (a total of 18.4 miles) with some juice left over. I hate carrying it up and down the stairs, because the stem is super thick, making it difficult to grasp. When you're waiting at a light, the GX2 also switches to Parking mode after a few seconds, so you constantly have to remember to press the mode button to switch it to the driving gear. It's super annoying, and Gotrax says there's no way to disable it. I am a little concerned about build quality—the motor makes a noise as if something is brushing against it, and this sound disappears if I lightly press the left brake lever while riding. The latch to keep the stem upright comes down too easily, despite a sliding lock mechanism to keep it in place; Gotrax says it might just be that it's installed too tightly. If you see any of these issues, I recommend reaching out to Gotrax and going to a local scooter shop to have them take a look.
Navee S65 for $1,099 : Navee is a relatively new brand growing its presence in the US, and I had a great time using the S65 ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ). I was able to regularly complete 16-mile round trips at 20 mph, but that pretty much depleted the battery. It has great acceleration, thanks to its geared hub motor, and it climbs slopes with ease, but this also makes it very loud.
 The motor's sound disappears if you're in a noisy city like New York City, but it can make you self-conscious on quiet streets. It's 53 pounds, so it's heavier than the Niu despite having a similar range, and its customer service is a little questionable since it's so new. Still, I had fun riding it.
Apollo Ghost for $1,599 : At 64 pounds, the Apollo Ghost ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) is not the scooter for walkups, but it's tremendous fun. I tested the 2021 model, but the 2022 version has some upgrades. The dual 1,000-watt motors can vault you to 34 miles per hour (if that's legal where you live), but I mostly relied on the single motor and cruised at around 20 to 25 mph—there's a button to switch between the two, and modes to further limit your speed. Anyone in a hilly city will benefit from the power and extended range of the Ghost. I hit around 20 miles on a single charge (Apollo claims a generous 37). There are front and visibility LEDs built under and around the deck, along with a taillight. As for the brakes, you can get wire-controlled discs or upgrade to hydraulic ones. The former delivered enough stopping power for me, but the latter is more responsive and reliable.
Evolv Terra for $1,234 : I enjoyed my time with the Evolv Terra ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ). If you're considering the Apollo Ghost above, consider this first because it's slightly cheaper, a little lighter at 53 pounds, and easier to carry. It's just as powerful, with the potential to go as fast as 31 miles per hour when you engage both 600-watt motors (check your local speed laws first!). Otherwise, you can cruise along at 20 mph as I did on the second gear speed setting (there are three in total) with the single motor. Range isn't dissimilar either; I usually had two bars left after 15 miles on the Terra so it can potentially last more than 20 miles, especially if you're conservative with its speeds. The suspension is OK but the solid tires on rougher roads can feel quite bumpy. The fenders also seemed pretty useless to me as, after a wet ride post-rain, my back was covered in specks of dirt kicked up from the rear tire. The stem's angle was also a little too close to my body, and the lack of a thumb throttle meant my wrist hurt after long rides. You can tweak the angle of the throttle and brakes to improve this though. These are relatively minor quibbles considering the price.
Radio Flyer S533 for $599 : Honestly, I'm surprised at how well this scooter did in my tests. The folding mechanism is just a latch and a sleeve you pull down to keep the latch from coming undone while you ride. It's super easy to fold and unfold, and lightweight at 30 pounds. It's not a commuter scooter by any means—my range hovered under 8 miles on a single charge—and despite exceeding its 220-pound load capacity, I averaged around 14 mph of its 16 mph top speed. It's a nice little scooter for going to the post office, to the grocery store, or to Cinnabon when my wife asks for a cinnamon roll. However, its price doesn't match its power and performance; it really should be cheaper. It's also worth noting that the first model the company sent me didn't turn on and the second model had a deflated front tire. Inflating it was a quick affair and I haven't had problems since.
Segway Ninebot F30 for $350 : This used to be my top recommendation for most people, but after a longer testing period, I've found that the range has dramatically reduced at a much faster pace compared to other electric scooters I've tried. It used to last around 10 miles or so, but lately, I've only managed around 6. I still think it's a great scooter. It goes 15 mph, is comfy to ride, and you get a good set of essentials, such as reliable lights, brakes, and an intuitively designed bell. It's fairly lightweight, too, at 33 pounds. If your budget can stretch, I'd go for the Ninebot F40 ($797) , which can go a bit faster and has better range, but I still prefer the Niu KQi3 Pro at that price.
Apollo Air Pro (2022) for $899 : I have not tested the new 2023 model, but the Apollo Air Pro (2022) was a perfectly fine scooter ( 6/10, WIRED Review ), I just don't think it's worth the high price. It goes up to 21 mph, and I was able to ride it for about 13 to 15 miles before it died. You get all the accouterments, like a front light and bell, and there's app connectivity to tweak settings to your liking. However, the app is required to unlock the Air Pro's true speed—otherwise, you're restricted to 12 mph. I'm more miffed at the folding mechanism, which is more work than it should be. It also doesn't accelerate too fast and, despite its 39-pound weight, is uncomfortable to carry due to its thick stem.
Photograph: Oleg Elkov/Getty Images What Kind of Scooter Tires Are Best? Solid, Tubed, or Tubeless? A few scooters mentioned in this guide have multiple tire options. You'll most commonly come across these two terms: pneumatic tires and solid tires. The former, which are filled with air, comes in two variants—tubed and tubeless.
Solid tires are made of solid material, like rubber or silicone, and require very little maintenance. However, they don't absorb bumps in the road that well, so you won't get the smoothest or grippiest ride. If you're in a city with mostly nice roads, you're taking short trips, and you go less than 20 mph, this is a completely fine option.
Tubed tires have an inner tube that holds the air and an exterior rubber tire to protect it. That means you'll need to regularly check the pressure in your tires, like on a bike. These are usually easy to replace if you get a flat, and you most likely will, as tubed tires aren't very puncture-resistant.
Tubeless tires don't have an inner tube—an airtight seal keeps the air in—and that allows for higher-quality, thicker, and tougher tires (though not as tough as solid tires). You'll still need to keep an eye on air pressure. These are usually found on pricier escooters, but like the tubed counterpart, it's what you want if you prioritize ride quality. I prefer tubeless tires, as they offer a comfier ride and are less likely to get a flat.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: OLIVER HELBIG/Getty Images Beware the Battery Gauge Check the Meter The battery meter on the display of your electric scooter might not be reliable. The bars dip really low when you ride uphill, and they suddenly flood back full when you go downhill. These meters show voltage. When the motor is working hard, the voltage drops as the motor pulls power from the battery. This can be anxiety-inducing if you go up a hill and suddenly see you only have two bars left. You might think you won't have enough juice to make it home. Over time, you'll get a better idea of your scooter's range, but until then, I recommend carrying the charger with you when possible. Escooters usually take six or so hours to fully recharge, but even an hour of recharging at the coffee shop might add just enough for your return trip.
Photograph: Kenneth Kristiansen/Getty Images Scooter Advice Pro Tips Scooters are electric vehicles, so there are a few things you should and shouldn't do if you get one. First, if you've never ridden an electric scooter and are nervous about shelling out for one, try a rideshare service. Companies like Lime, Lyft, and Bird let you grab an escooter for not a lot of money, which is a good way to test the waters.
Wear a helmet.
Need I say more? Protect your noggin. Our Biking Accessories guide has some helmet options—my personal favorite is the Thousand Heritage helmet —and follow this guide to fit your helmet the right way.
Check your local laws.
Are electric scooters legal where you live ? If so, what's the max speed limit? Do you have to be in the bike lane? Over the past three years, escooters have become a common sight in many cities. Chances are your state or city has spelled out rules about riding them.
Don't charge your escooter overnight or when no one is home.
The manuals of several scooters I've tested say the same. Not every battery or charger has a UL certification for safety, and I've seen one too many stories of battery fires.
 Always be around when you're charging your scooter, and unplug it when it's finished charging.
Try to avoid the rain.
You'll want to check your scooter to see whether it has official IP water- and dust-resistance ratings. If not, avoid riding in the rain. If there is a rating, it's still a good idea to get out of the rain quickly. More importantly, do not plug the charger in without wiping down the charging port and ensuring that it's dry.
Be wary of potholes.
My first and only accident on an electric scooter is thanks to a deep pothole. I noticed it too late. If you're driving a car, you'd probably try and avoid a pothole, so do the same with a scooter.
Don't store your escooter in excessive temperatures.
Extreme heat and extreme cold are not good for batteries. Store your escooter indoors in a cool, dry place, like you would your breakfast cereal! Avoid riding it in these temperatures as well.
One rider only, please.
Unless a manufacturer explicitly states that an escooter can carry two people, only one rider should be on the deck. These vehicles can go pretty fast, and you don't need to go more than 20 mph to be in a serious accident. It's also a good idea to check the weight limit on your scooter.
Check the manufacturer's servicing and repair options.
Before you invest in a new scooter, check if the manufacturer offers spare parts or is able to service your scooter if any issues arise. You may want to connect with local ebike and escooter shops to see if they have experience with the brand you're going with.
Don't leave your escooter unattended outdoors.
Scooters aren't easy to secure, so it probably goes without saying that they're easy to steal. Roll them indoors if you need to, but keep them within sight if you don't want to walk home, helmet in hand.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: LaScoota Avoid These Scooters You Can Do Better We try to test electric scooters for two to three months, oftentimes even longer. Not all of them are winners. That's what you'll find below—escooters that are OK but not as good as our picks above.
LaScoota Skate-X Pro for $899 : I actually had a nice time riding the Skate-X Pro. It was responsive, hit a top speed of around 20 miles per hour, and usually lasted me around 15 miles or so. The deck is designed like a skateboard, allowing you to actually use your body weight to lean side to side to control the scooter. It's fun! The problem? On my third ride, the rear air-filled tire went flat. I fear this will become a common problem with the Skate-X Pro. I reached out to the company internally and via its support email and haven't heard back, which doesn't bode well.
Gotrax G6 for $800 and Eclipse for $550 : These scooters have decent range and are comfy to ride. However, both of them have an overheating problem. On an 80-degree summer day, the G6 gave me the overheating error after 20 minutes of riding. It especially struggled going up a bridge. I kept having to turn it off, wait a few minutes, and start riding again, but the issue kept repeating. This same problem happened with the Eclipse too. They're rated to carry up to 265 pounds, so there should not have been any issues.
Taur Electric Scooter for $1,195 : I liked riding the Taur ( 4/10, WIRED Review ) but there are just too many flaws with the hardware and software that make it difficult to recommend at this price. There's no deck—just two pedals you can stand on, so it feels like you're gliding. That means it has a compact profile, and it's the only scooter in this guide that can stand upright by itself, which is excellent for tiny apartments. It's a smooth ride with good suspension, even if it's a bit bouncy, and I had to tighten the brakes to get the stopping power I wanted. It's powerful, delivering speeds up to 24 mph, and has no trouble clearing slopes, but you may want to limit its speed because the range suffers greatly at the high end—I got a measly 8 miles going from Brooklyn to Manhattan. It'll go a good deal farther if you restrict it to 15 mph but the ride experience is much more choppy as the scooter struggles to maintain the speed you want. The folding mechanism could stand to be more elegant and it's a little tough to carry because of the thick stem (it weighs 38 pounds). The app is clunky too, but the company says updates to improve the experience are on the way. There's already a Taur II on Kickstarter expected to ship next May.
Atomi Alpha for $599 : This is one of the most attractive scooters in this guide ( 5/10, WIRED Review ), but it has the worst kickstand of them all. It’s so small and vertically angled that a light wind can knock it over. The scooter offers a pretty comfy ride, with some fun visibility lights, and the whole thing is easy to fold up and carry. It just struggles to hit its top speed despite coming under its weight limit. My first unit also died after a few months.
TurboAnt X7 Pro for $550 : I wish I could like this scooter. It has a removable battery and you can buy and carry spares to extend your trip! It's also fairly lightweight at 33 pounds. Unfortunately, my first unit kept overheating after I'd go up any kind of incline and I'd have to wait for it to cool down to ride again. (Others have had the same issue.
) My second unit no longer has this issue, but it now goes painfully slow—12 mph on flat roads. That's bizarre because it's supposed to hit 20 mph and I did manage to hit 18 mph on my first unit. (No, I definitely did not put on weight in between the two … I hope.) I only got about 12 miles of range out of it. It's been such a hassle that I've just been completely turned off by it. It's also now sold out, but I'll be testing a new TurboAnt soon.
Levy Plus for $749 : My fellow WIRED reviewer Adrienne So tested a prototype of the Levy Plus in 2020.
 She liked its replaceable battery and reliable disc brakes but found the whole thing “agonizingly slow on hilly terrain.” It goes up to 18 mph and is rated for 5 to 10 percent inclines , so it's best for flat roads. It's one of the lighter escooters out there, at just 30 pounds.
Unagi Model One for $990 : Unagi gives you two ways to access its escooter: You can buy it outright or subscribe to rent it for $59 per month. We think you should stick with the new Model One Voyager instead. The specs on the Model One at its price just don't make sense.
Reviews Editor X Topics Shopping buying guides scooters Electric outdoors magazine-30.04 Julian Chokkattu Adrienne So Jeremy White Parker Hall Boone Ashworth Medea Giordano WIRED Staff Louryn Strampe WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
