Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Matt Jancer Gear 13 Great Deals on Cameras, Smartwatches, Speakers, and TVs Save this story Save Save this story Save Black Friday seems to start earlier and earlier each year in its relentless march across the American calendar. Retailers and manufacturers have traditionally buttoned themselves down and steeled themselves for Black Friday by skimping on deals in the weeks before the big event, but some have snuck in early Black Friday deals on a few of our most recommended products. From Sonos to Apollo to Samsung, there's enough here to whet your whistle if you can't wait—or if you just want to stealthily beat the crowds.
We rounded up several other sales earlier this week that are still running, including deals on Chromebooks as well as discounted Arlo security cameras and video doorbells.
 Check ’em out! Special offer for Gear readers: Get WIRED for just $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com , full Gear coverage, and subscriber-only newsletters. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
Read our Best Smartwatches and Best Laptops guides for more recommendations.
Samsung Galaxy Watch6 Photograph: Samsung Amazon More than anything, what stood out to WIRED reviews editor Julian Chokkattu about the Galaxy Watch6 Classic ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) was the return of Samsung's rotating bezel. Unfortunately, the standard Watch6 doesn't have this feature. Still, this is the lowest price we have tracked for it. It's a comfy smartwatch with more than a day of battery life and the latest Wear 4 operating system. On the downside, there's some occasional lag, the heart rate tracker is flighty, and some health features work only with Samsung phones.
Amazon This Wear OS-powered Ticwatch has some of the best battery life you'll find in a full-featured touchscreen smartwatch. Its unique dual-display technology helps the watch last nearly three days on a single charge. You can respond to notifications and track health and fitness, plus it feels pretty snappy. The downside? Lackluster software support. This watch doesn't have the latest Wear 4 operating system, and it may be a while before it does.
Fitbit Sense 2 Photograph: Fitbit Adorama For serious health data tracking, the Sense 2 is a powerful tool. Its electrocardiogram sensor, in addition to tracking your heart data for signs of stress and activity, is FDA-cleared to help wearers detect potential signs of atrial fibrillation. During sleep, other sensors monitor your sleep quality and spot any physiological changes. Temporarily on back order, you can lock in the lower price now and receive it by December, if you can wait a month or so.
Amazon With Apple's M2 processor, the 2022-model MacBook Pro ( 7/10, WIRED Review ) is powerful and quick enough for performance-intensive video and photo editing tasks. It may not be worth upgrading from an M1-equipped MacBook Pro, but if you have an older Pro or just need a more capable machine than a MacBook Air, it's a solid buy. Keep in mind that Apple announced an event on October 30, and rumors suggest there will be new MacBook Pro models with M3 chipsets, though likely at a far higher price than this model.
Read our Best Escooters guide for other options.
Apollo Phantom V3 Photograph: Apollo Apollo Scooters The Phantom V3 ( 9/10, WIRED Recommends ) is a beast of an electric scooter at 77 pounds, but it has excellent range. WIRED reviews editor Julian Chokkattu traversed on it from Bed-Stuy, Brooklyn, to Fort Lee, New Jersey—a 22-mile trip—and had 43 percent left in the tank. Now that's a commuter scooter.
Apollo Scooters Enter code WIRED10 at checkout to see the full discount. WIRED reviewer Julian Chokkattu tested the 2022 model of the Air ( 6/10, WIRED Review ) and wasn't crazy about it, but the 2023 model makes notable tweaks, like a revamped handlebar, self-healing tires, and a better folding mechanism. The 500-watt motor can go up to 21 miles per hour, and most people should expect roughly 15 miles of range if not less at those speeds (depending on other factors as well).
Amazon Walmart This is our favorite escooter right now. It has a nice blend of power, range, and weight (it's 45 pounds). It offers a nice suspension, can easily go past 18 miles of range, and hits a top speed of 20 miles per hour. You can track and make tweaks to its performance in the companion app. It frequently dips to this price.
Check out our Best Sonos Speakers and Best TVs guides for more.
Sonos Ray Photograph: Sonos Sonos Best Buy Tight on space? Watching your budget but still want a killer sound setup for your television? This combination marries the Ray soundbar ( 9/10, WIRED Recommends ) with the Sub Mini subwoofer ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) to provide a phenomenally powerful, compact setup that can fit into even the most cramped apartment. The sound from both the soundbar and subwoofer can envelop an entire room. Sonos' mobile app is also slick and easy to use, although you need an iOS device for certain features.
Sonos Best Buy Even several years after its debut, the Sonos Arc ( 9/10, WIRED Recommends ) remains one of our favorite soundbars for upgrading the sound of your TV without having to mount speakers all over every corner of the room. The Dolby Atmos sound projects to every corner of the room beautifully, and it works with Google Assistant, Alexa, and Siri. This package includes the Sonos Sub, a powerful wireless subwoofer.
Samsung S95C Photograph: Samsung Samsung Amazon Best Buy Bright colors, wide viewing angles, deep blacks dark enough to plunge into and get lost within. No wonder WIRED associate editor Parker Hall called the S95C ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) among the best TVs of 2023. The interface might be slow, but the S95C is still one of our favorites on sale right now.
Adorama You know the classic Telecaster sound, even if you've never had the joy of playing one. Twangy and sweetly chimey on so many country songs, it can also be a rip-roaring rock ‘n’ roll guitar, as demonstrated by Joe Strummer of the Clash and Keith Richards of the Rolling Stones. Hell, even guitar heroes known for other guitars used them on the leads of certain classic songs, such as Crazy Little Thing Called Love and Purple Haze.
 The Player Plus series from Fender is among the best bang for your buck, with solid electronics and smoothly finished necks and fret wire.
Read our Best Mirrorless Cameras guide for other picks.
Nikon Z 6II Photograph: Nikon Amazon B&H Adorama WIRED senior reviewer Scott Gilbertson crowned the Z 6II the best mirrorless camera for the legions of Nikon shooters. Sure, there are fancier models in Nikon's lineup, but for the money, it's hard to beat the excellent dynamic range from the 24-megapixel full-frame sensor, and the phase-detect autofocus system is one of the best he's ever used.
Amazon Adorama B&H Camera brands tend to inspire intense devotion or, at least, an acknowledgment that buying into one's ecosystem often turns into an exercise of sunk costs. You've bought all the lenses that fit a certain brand's frames, so you continue to buy that brand. For all the people who love to shoot Nikon, there are as many who love to shoot Canon, and the EOS-R was crowned best for Canon fans in our Best Mirrorless Cameras guide.
 This EOS R8 is a bit different, but it retains the characteristic slightly warmer hue common to Canons, fast phase-detect autofocus, and beautiful color contrast.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft You Might Also Like … 📧 Find the best bargains on quality gear with our Deals newsletter “ Someone is using photos of me to talk to men” First-gen social media users have nowhere to go The truth behind the biggest (and dumbest) battery myths We asked a Savile Row tailor to test all the “best” T-shirts you see in social media ads My kid wants to be an influencer.
 Is that bad? 🌞 See if you take a shine to our picks for the best sunglasses and sun protection Writer and Reviewer Topics Shopping Deals Nena Farrell Eric Ravenscraft Nena Farrell Brenda Stolyar Matt Jancer Louryn Strampe Matt Jancer Brenda Stolyar WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
