Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Julian Chokkattu Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Best Overall $60 at Nomad Best Cheap Case $25 at Amazon (iPhone 15) Runner-Up Read more at Amazon (iPhone 15) Best Clear Case (and Thin!) $35 at Amazon (iPhone 15) Titanium, shmitanium. Every year Apple touts some fancy new process to make the glass on its iPhones stronger, or the metals in the frame sturdier. And yet, a single drop is often still all it takes to shatter a handset. Titanium is present only on this year's iPhone 15 Pro models , and I like it because it genuinely makes these phones a little more lightweight. However, it does not make them shatter-proof.
 They're still glass slabs.
Be smart and grab a case. They're not a guaranteed defense against cracks, but paired with a screen protector, they're a smart way to give your expensive investment some protection, especially if you skipped out on AppleCare.
 Whichever model you have , I've tried dozens of iPhone 15 cases and accessories to help you kit out your new smartphone. Oh, and no, older iPhone cases you may have lying around will not work with the new models.
Be sure to check out our other Apple guides, including the Best MagSafe Accessories , Best Apple 3-in-1 Chargers , Best MagSafe Power Banks , and Best iPhones.
Updated October 2023: We've added accessories from Waterfield Designs, Mous, Totallee, Case-Mate, Peak Design, Twelve South, Caseology, Nomad, Nimble, and Belkin.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get WIRED for just $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.
com , full Gear coverage, and subscriber-only newsletters. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Nomad Best Overall Nomad Rugged Case With MagSafe Nomad's Rugged Case is what my palms gravitated to this year after testing dozens of cases. I like the curve in the thick thermoplastic urethane bumper, offering respite for my fingers. It has some of the best (aluminum!) buttons on a case of the many I tried, especially for the Action button on the iPhone 15 Pro models. The polycarbonate frame is sturdy, and the backplate doesn't show smudges easily. Best of all, it doesn't rock on a flat surface but sits flat. There's a decent lip (raised edges) around the screen to keep it from touching a surface when face down. And with MagSafe support, it does a fine job with other MagSafe accessories.
 I just wish the blue and orange colors weren't exclusive to the Pro models.
If you mount your phone often, I suggest you get the Nomad X Peak Design version, which has Peak Design's SlimLink mounting system.
 It's integrated into various products like a tripod mount and a bike mount (my favorite) , and it's much more secure than typical MagSafe mounts.
★ Alternative: The Caudabe Sheath ($40) is a similarly well-balanced case, though it's more svelte than the Nomad. It has a lovely texture on the back, plus MagSafe support. The buttons are quite clicky, though the Pro model I tested had a cutout for the Action Button. Caudabe now has a version with a physical button for the Action button; I think you should snag that one instead.
$60 at Nomad $65 at Nomad (Nomad X Peak Design) Photograph: Spigen Best Cheap Case Spigen Ultra Hybrid S MagSafe Case With Kickstand Spigen's Ultra Hybrid S is the best value case. There's an adhesive film you need to remove before you install the case on your phone—which is great, because the clear cases that didn't have this protective sheet picked up a lot of dust before I put them on my device. The buttons work excellently—yes, even the Action button on the Pro models. The same goes for MagSafe, and you even get a reliable kickstand you can pop out on the back that works in both landscape and portrait orientation. Unfortunately, clear cases collect dust and smudges quickly, so you'll have to wipe them down often.
I recommend you go for the Capella Mg Kick Stand case ($24) from Spigen-owned Caseology if you have the iPhone 15 Pro or iPhone 15 Pro Max.
 It's almost identical except it has a nice grippy texture on the edges and a lanyard attachment point, though the Action button is just a bit mushy.
$25 at Amazon (iPhone 15) $25 at Amazon (Plus) $25 at Amazon (Pro) $25 at Amazon (Pro Max) Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Caseology Runner-Up Caseology Nano Pop Mag Case This is another great cheap one if you don't want a clear case. There are a few colors you can choose from (I am partial to the Magenta Lychee). The edges have some nice grippy texture, the silicone doesn't attract dust and lint like Apple's official case, and the buttons are responsive. The edges around the camera module and screen are raised fairly well, and MagSafe support rounds it out. It has it all, and it's just $20—that's great value.
Caseology has another similar case that's just as cheap, the Parallax Mag ($19).
 It's not nearly as grippy, but it has all the other hallmarks of the Nano Pop Mag but with a different design.
Buy at Amazon (iPhone 15) $20 at Amazon (15 Plus) $19 at Amazon (15 Pro) $19 at Amazon (Pro Max) Photograph: Totallee Best Clear Case (and Thin!) Totallee Clear MagSafe Case Mad that a case is going to cover the beautiful color on your iPhone? Get a clear case! The Spigen case above clutters things up with a kickstand, but this one from Totallee offers a better window to the back of your iPhone while still being thin and including MagSafe support. The buttons are super responsive, the edges around the camera module are raised, and it's easy to wipe smudges away. Totallee even includes a film you need to peel away that protects it from dust before you put it on your iPhone. My only gripe is that the edges around the display are barely raised, so you'll definitely want to pair it with a screen protector.
$35 at Amazon (iPhone 15) $35 at Amazon (15 Plus) $35 at Amazon (Pro) $35 at Amazon (Pro Max) Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Smartish Get a Screen Protector Easy Apply I already have a scratch on my iPhone 15 Pro, and I have no idea how it got there. But screen protectors can be scary! These ones were the easiest to install with no outside help whatsoever. They adhered to the iPhone with no immediate issues in the following days.
Smartish Tuff Sheet for $15 : Two tempered-glass screen protectors for $15? It's hard to beat the value here. Smartish also offers up an applicator tool that makes it dead simple to apply a protector, provided you clean your iPhone first with the included alcohol wipe, dust removal stickers, and microfiber cloth. Any air bubbles that showed up disappeared fairly quickly.
Zagg InvisibleShield XTR3 for $60 : Zagg's screen protector has some blue light filtration baked in if that's your thing, and it was just as easy to apply as the Smartish. Zagg's is obviously more expensive, but it claims its tempered-glass protector can survive more abuse, though I wasn't able to verify this. In Zagg's defense, the screen protector is noticeably thicker than the other two on this list. You only get one, but Zagg offers a $250 screen guarantee.
 For an extra $20, you'll get $250 for a screen replacement in case anything happens to your screen within the first year of use.
Belkin ScreenForce UltraGlass 2 for $40 : This protector weirdly doesn't come with a wet wipe (really, Belkin?), just a dust removal sticker and a microfiber cloth. It's easy enough to apply with the included applicator, but it took considerable force to squeeze out all of the air bubbles. It's not tempered glass, but Belkin claims this one has 2.7 times the strength with better scratch resistance. It's thicker than the Smartish but not as thick as the Zagg.
OtterBox Premium Glass for $40 : This glass screen protector had the most opportunity for failure, and it sits ever so slightly askew on my iPhone. You just need to be a little careful when using the applicator tool. My air bubbles completely disappeared by the following day.
Photograph: Nomad Best Leather Case Nomad Modern Leather Case With MagSafe Apple no longer makes a leather case for the iPhone, so you have to go with a third-party manufacturer if you want real leather. My favorite is from Nomad—the Horween model uses leather from the esteemed US tannery based in Chicago, and it oozes luxury (and smells fantastic). However, you can save some cash with the standard leather case, which employs Ecco leather , which purportedly uses less water to tan the leather and reduces the amount of chemicals used in the process. The buttons on both of these cases are clicky, including the Action button, and I like the microfiber inner to keep your phone's glass scratch-free. It works well with MagSafe accessories too.
$50 at Nomad (Ecco Leather) $70 at Nomad (Horween Leather) Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Peak Design For Mounting Madness Peak Design Everyday Case With SlimLink MagSafe Peak Design's case for the iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max are being reworked right now to include an actual Action button instead of the cutout on its initial models. (iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus cases have a cutout as usual for the mute switch.) I would hold off until those versions are ready if you have a Pro iPhone, but it's an otherwise svelte and stylish case, especially in bright colors like Sun. There's a nice fabric-like texture on the back, a rigid bumper around, and a spot to attach a lanyard. The buttons are wonderfully clicky too. Just know that the screen is almost flush with the edges of the case, so definitely add a screen protector for maximum protection.
The reason to buy this case is Peak Design's SlimLink system, which has made it so much easier to securely mount the iPhone to practically anything. I've used the Universal Bar Mount to securely mount the iPhone to electric bikes and scooters, and it has never budged from its place. The Creator Kit also lets you attach the phone to almost any tripod or action cam mount. MagSafe still works excellently, so wireless charging works just fine.
$50 at Peak Design $50 at Amazon Photograph: Zagg Best Kickstand Case Zagg Denali Snap With Kickstand and MagSafe You can totally get a dedicated MagSafe kickstand for your iPhone like the Moft Tripod Stand ($40) , but if you don't want to fuss about with an extra thing , then a kickstand embedded in your case is the way to go. The Denali Snap is a little more rugged than the Spigen above. It has a graphene-infused backplate, which Zagg says does a better job of absorbing and deflecting impacts than ever before, though I can't vouch for this. The kickstand works in portrait and landscape orientation, though it's a bit wobbly in the former. It's easy to pull out, even for someone like me that perennially chews on nails. The buttons are snappy, the edges around the screen are raised, and MagSafe accessories hook up to it with no issues. If it's too spendy, go with the Spigen Ultra Hybrid S above.
$65 at Amazon $60 at Zagg Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Moft For Butterfingers Moft Snap Phone Case MOVAS MagSafe I don't know why, but whenever I see someone hanging their phone off their body like a cross-body bag, I immediately think they're cool. It just has that laid-back, too-cool-for-school vibe. Moft's lanyard can get you there, and it's one of the fanciest systems I've tried—great for anyone whose phone is constantly flying out of their hands.
First, you'll want to use it with its Snap case. The vegan leather case has a nice feel and looks attractive with clicky buttons. At the bottom on the inside is a little dip—this is where you attach the anchor via adhesive. Then, attach the lanyard to the loops on the anchor sticking out at the bottom of the case, and voilà! Lanyard case! The adjustable lanyard is comfy across the body, and you can take it off when you don't need it. However, removing it still leaves two tiny anchors sticking out from the bottom of the case. This is why this system is best paired with a MagSafe charger or a wired cable for recharging.
★ Alternatives: The Cyrill Classic Charm Mag Case ($30) is cheaper and simpler—just attach the carabiner cross-body strap to the rings at the bottom of the case. The strap comes included with the case too! The case has a lovely leather-like texture on the back, responsive buttons, and decently raised edges.
$50 at Moft (Case) $30 at Moft (Lanyard) Photograph: Twelve South Best Wallet Case Twelve South BookBook MagSafe Case If you're like me and you carry ID, a few credit cards, and some cash almost everywhere all the time , you'll want a more robust wallet case than what you'll get with most MagSafe wallets. That's why I love the BookBook. It's pricey, but it actually fits everything I'd want to carry around, with a large sleeve for some cash or coins too. The iPhone sits in a separate case you can easily remove from the wallet if you don't need it. The wallet portion doesn't support MagSafe, but the phone case does, so just take it off to recharge. Oh, and the whole thing looks like a little leather-bound book! It's super cute. The only flaw? Access to the Action button is via a cutout instead of a real button.
$70 at Amazon $70 at Twelve South Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Speck Best Case and Wallet Combo Speck Presidio2 Grip MagSafe With ClickLock MagSafe wallets have a tendency to slip off every time you take your iPhone out of your pocket. Speck's solution is a proprietary locking mechanism called ClickLock that doesn't completely lock the MagSafe accessory into place like Peak Design's SlimLink system, but it's more secure than MagSafe alone. You need Speck's case to make this all work, and of the many Speck cases I tested, my favorite is the Presidio2 Grip. It has a soft-touch feel and clicky buttons, though the Action button on the Pro model is a bit rigid.
Attach the ClickLock Wallet for MagSafe, wait for the click , and now it'll require a good deal more force to remove it—it won't just slide off. The wallet fits three cards comfortably, and you can push them out via the gap on the side. I vigorously shook the wallet to see if any cards would slip out, but nope. The cards stay put.
$50 at Amazon (Case) $30 at Amazon (Wallet) $30 at Best Buy (Wallet) Photograph: Zagg For Long Gaming Sessions Zagg London Snap Graphene MagSafe Case The iPhone 15 range can get quite hot when you start gaming (or doing any demanding activity) for a long period of time. Graphene has notable cooling properties , and this is one of the benefits Zagg is touting in its graphene-laden cases. In my rudimentary tests, I found that the London Snap case spread the heat throughout the case so there were far fewer hot spots than on other cases, and the phone didn't feel as warm to hold. I wasn't able to scientifically verify this with a temperature monitor though.
The London Snap is a pleasant case with or without these cooling features. There's a lovely grippy and 3D-printed fabric material on the back, decently raised edges around the screen, reliably clicky buttons, and MagSafe support. It's also made with up to 91 percent postconsumer recycled materials.
$50 at Amazon $50 at Zagg Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Razer A MagSafe Phone Cooler Razer Phone Cooler Chroma MagSafe If you frequently end up with a very hot iPhone, whether you're gaming or running some other intensive task, then it might be smart to invest in a dedicated cooler. This one from Razer is pretty much a magnetic fan with RGB lights. Attach it to your iPhone, plug it into a power source via USB-C, and press the power switch to have it suck away the heat from your handset. It's pretty quiet. I ran some benchmark tests with the cooler and without it, and there's a notable difference—the iPhone's performance was nearly 30 percent more stable with the cooler on it and delivered higher frame rates over a longer period of time. That makes it well worth the money.
If you download the Razer Phone Cooler app , you can pair with the cooler to adjust the fan speed from Auto, High, and Standard, plus you can turn off the RGB effects if you don't like 'em for some reason.
$60 at Razer Photograph: ESR For Complete Protection Armor Tough Case with Stash Stand (HaloLock) Aside from the stupidly long name, I had a hard time finding faults with this ESR case. OK, it's only available for the iPhone 15 Pro Max. This is a clear case, so your iPhone's titanium color can shine through. It has a tough bumper around the edges, and you get complete screen protection on the front. ESR has an applicator that makes it easy to install this protector with almost no air bubbles, and it doesn't leave an air gap in between.
You also get strong MagSafe magnets on the case, responsive buttons, and there's a fun trick: The camera module bumper doubles as a kickstand! It's a bit wobbly if you tap the screen a lot, but it works for portrait (at a steep angle) and landscape orientation. Even the USB-C port is covered up. All of this does make it chunky, and you might want to think twice about removing the case often, or you might compromise the screen protector.
★ Alternative: The Otterbox Defender Series XT ($70) comes in a bunch more styles and colors at OtterBox's website , but this is a two-shell case. Slip on a synthetic rubber case over your iPhone, then push a polycarbonate frame over from the top. The hard part keeps your phone in place, while the rubbery area absorbs the shocks. Or at least, that's the idea. It protects the USB-C port and is made with more than 50 percent recycled plastic, has clicky buttons, and the edges are raised fairly well to protect the screen.
$38 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Moment For iPhone Photographers Moment MagSafe Case and T-Series Lenses After several years, Moment finally upgraded its mobile lenses for modern-day cameras. Its new T-Series lenses are made to take advantage of the bigger image sensors available on new phones, with a 20 percent larger aperture. The lens elements are clearer with less color distortion, too. To use the lenses with your iPhone, you'll need to use Moment's camera app so you can easily force the camera to choose the correct lenses. You'll also need a Moment case, which is svelte with a snazzy look and responsive buttons. The texture on the back tends to pick up some dirt, though. You'll also need a drop-in lens mount , and this is where you mount the lens when you want to use it.
I have not tested the Anamorphic Lens for videos , but my favorites are the 14-mm Fisheye Mobile Lens ($120) , 18-mm Wide Mobile Lens ($130) , and the 10X Macro Mobile Lens ($120).
 I did not love the 58-mm Tele Mobile Lens ($150) , as I found the photos were generally not quite sharp (not just at the edges, but in the center of the frame too). I used them primarily on the iPhone 14 Pro, but the results should be similar if not the same for the new iPhone 15 range. I also like Moment's MagSafe accessories , though you don't need to use its case to enjoy those.
$50 at Moment (Case) $120 at Moment (Lenses) $5 at Moment (Drop-in Mount) Photograph: Apple If You Want Apple's Official MagSafe Cases Apple FineWoven and Silicone Cases As part of its sustainability initiative, Apple no longer sells any leather cases, which is why there's a new FineWoven case taking its place, made from 68 percent postconsumer recycled materials. The FineWoven is … fine? It feels nice, but it scuffs up easily after placing MagSafe accessories on the back. I have already noticed some discoloration in the fabric after a few weeks of use, too. Surprisingly, it does a good job of not picking up dust and pet hair, and if it does, it's easy to brush off. The silicone case is more dirt-prone, but it's also perfectly fine.
$49 at Apple (Silicone) $59 at Apple (FineWoven) Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Zagg More Good Clear Cases Hate Opaque Not satisfied? Here are a few more clear cases worth looking at.
Zagg Crystal Palace Snap MagSafe Case for $50 : This is a nice clear case, but it did not have any protective film to remove before installation and got grubby pretty quickly. There are decently raised lips around the edges to protect the screen, solid buttons, and MagSafe support. If you don't care for MagSafe and want the clearest, most obstruction-free case to show off your iPhone, then get Zagg's Crystal Palace Case ($40).
 The Action button isn't as clicky as the other buttons, but the rest of the case is solid.
Smartish Gripmunk Clearly Clear MagSafe Case for $20 : This one rivals Spigen's case and actually came with a protective film, but only for the back of the case. The buttons are clicky, but it smudges and shows scuffs easily. The edges have a frosted pattern.
Zagg Luxe Snap Clear MagSafe Case for $40 : This one feels quite grippy, but I found the Action button to be a little mushy. The edges are raised up well, and while it doesn't show smudges and scuffs as easily as the other cases above, the design does feel like it detracts from the whole purpose of it being a clear case.
OtterBox Lumen Series MagSafe Case for $50 : This case has a colored bumper around the edges and matches it with the MagSafe module, but it's otherwise a clear case. It's made of 50 percent recycled materials, and it has grippy edges, nice buttons, and reliable MagSafe support. I just wish it didn't have that oily residue some clear cases have.
Photograph: Cable Matters A Robust USB-C Cable Cable Matters USB-C to USB-C Thunderbolt 4 The iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus are stuck at USB 2.0 speeds, but the iPhone 15 Pro models support USB 3.0, meaning you can transfer up to 10 gigabits per second via the new USB-C port.
 They all support DisplayPort Over USB-C, so if you use a compatible cable, you can connect your iPhone to an external monitor of some kind to mirror your screen. We have a whole guide to the best USB-C cables , but I suggest going with this Cable Matters Thunderbolt 4 cable. It supports up to 100 watts, so you can recharge a MacBook Pro under load with the same cable, it supports more than what you'll need for data transfer, and it can carry video too. None of that is possible with the cable that Apple includes in the box (which is restricted to 60 watts). It comes in multiple lengths.
$28 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Anker A Charging Adapter Grab a 30-Watt Charger Apple hasn't offered a charging brick in the box since the iPhone 12, so if you don't have one, we've got you covered with a few recommendations. These are all 30-watt chargers, which are more beneficial for the iPhone Pro models as they secretly support up to 27 watts, but 30 watts is still handy to have in case you want to recharge your iPad too.
Nimble Wally SubNano 30-Watt Charger for $25 : We like Nimble because the company tries to make its products a little more eco-friendly. This tiny 30-watt charger has fixed prongs, but it's made of 90 percent recycled plastic, is BPA- and PVC-free, and comes in 100 percent recycled scrap paper packaging.
Anker 511 Nano 3 30-Watt Charger for $20 : This is one of the tiniest chargers we've tested, and the prongs fold up for even more space savings. It comes in fun colors too.
Plugable Wall Outlet With 30-Watt USB-C and USB-A for $20 : This one's more functional. You can get 30 watts out of the USB-C, but you also get a USB-A port for another gadget (maybe an older Apple Watch charger), plus an outlet to plug in a laptop charger.
Nomad 35-Watt Slim Power Adapter for $35 : This slim charger is great if you don't want to have plugs sticking out of your outlet. It doesn't impede the second outlet on a wall (if you put it upside down), and the prongs fold up, making it great for travel.
Photograph: Anker Our Favorite MagSafe Battery Pack Anker 622 MagGo Portable Charger (A1614) This Anker power bank is our favorite. It can top up your iPhone in a pinch, and you don't need to plug in anything—just slap it on the back of your iPhone and it'll magnetically align itself. It has a built-in kickstand that keeps the phone up in landscape or portrait orientation, and there's a button to turn it off, so you can stop charging when you just want to use the kickstand function. Read our Best MagSafe Power Banks guide for more options.
★ Alternative: If you prefer speedier wired charging, try Anker's Nano Power Bank ($30).
 It's compact but packs the same amount of power as the MagSafe battery above (5,000 mAh). It's good enough to recharge an iPhone once, but it might not work with bulky cases. Read our Best Portable Power Banks guide for more.
$50 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Backbone For iPhone Gamers Backbone One (USB-C) I tested Resident Evil Village on the iPhone 15 Pro and hated using the touch controls. There were too many virtual buttons, and it's hard to remember where everything sits on the HUD. If doing a lot of gaming on your iPhone, especially since more AAA titles will now be launching in the App Store, the Backbone One is a must-have ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ). Make sure you buy the USB-C version. Not every game supports controllers, but you'll be relieved when you can use physical controls.
$100 at Amazon $100 at Best Buy $100 at Backbone Photograph: Otterbox Honorable Mentions Other Good Cases Around this time every year, my office is overrun by new cases. I am currently surrounded by more than 60, and many of them are perfectly fine! They just don't really stand out, or they have one quirk I don't really like. That's what you'll find below. You might like them more than I do.
OtterBox Figura MagSafe Case for $50 : These tie-dye phone cases are super rad. The buttons click well, and the MagSafe connection is strong. They're a little slippery, but the edges around the screen are raised well enough to protect it.
OtterBox Symmetry MagSafe Case for $50 : This case is pretty simple, but it's cute! It's made from 50 percent recycled plastic, and there are lots of colors to choose from. The first case I tried had buttons that were a little tough to press, but I tested a second version that's much more responsive and clicky. It's an all-around great case that nails all the basics and looks stylish to boot. Don't confuse it with the OtterGrip Symmetry ($60) , which adds a phone grip to the back of the case. It's fine, but I don't like how you need two hands to remove the grip, and it doesn't function as a kickstand, unlike similar cases.
Waterfield Designs iPhone EDC Pocket Organizer for $59 : If you prefer to store your iPhone in a bag all the time but don't want to get it scuffed up with other items, this is a nice option from Waterfield Designs. It fits the iPhone 15 Pro Max just fine, and there are pouches for pens, cards, and cash. The main zippered compartment can also hold a passport, and there's even a tiny pouch in there for AirTags to track the bag if you lose it. It's made from X-Pac, which is waterproof, though only the items in the zippered pouch will benefit.
Mous Limitless 5.0 MagSafe Case for $60 : Mous has a few different textures you can choose from. The aramid I have is quite boring, but I'd recommend snagging the walnut or bamboo if you want a wood case. The case itself is well constructed with a blend of polycarbonate, thermoplastic urethane, and thermoplastic elastomer. The edges around the screen are raised, the MagSafe connection is strong, and the buttons work well. I did find the edges a bit slippery.
Mous IntraLock MagSafe Phone Case for $60 : This is a pretty nice slim case with clicky buttons and good raised edges for the screen and camera module. It comes with Mous' proprietary IntraLock system, allowing you to more securely connect it with other Mous accessories like a bike mount.
 I prefer Peak Design's SlimLink lineup of accessories, but this is a nice alternative.
Spigen Tough Armor MagFit ($25) : The chunky Tough Armor has some of the best buttons I've pressed on a case, including for the Action button. There's a hole in the center to show off that classic Apple logo, and over on the front, the edges are raised above the screen for extra protection. The kickstand is just OK. It's a little hard for me to pull out, and it only works in landscape orientation. But hey, it's cheap. I have also tested Spigen's Mag Armor and Rugged Armor , but I don't like them as much as the Tough Armor or the picks above.
OtterBox Commuter MagSafe Case for $45 : This case is like the inverse of the Defender XT we recommend up above. You have to slip a rubber case over the iPhone, and the polycarbonate shell with the MagSafe component goes on the back. It's pretty solid all around, except the MagSafe just isn't as strong as on the other OtterBox cases. I don't know if it's because of the weight of the Pro Max that I tested it with, but it came off my MagSafe wireless charging stands more easily.
Rokform Crystal Series and Rugged Series for $70 : It's a thick and sturdy case, but the selling point is the strong MagSafe connection, which the company says is four to five times stronger on magnetic surfaces than typical MagSafe cases. This is true, it stuck to my metal desk very well. If you want a strong magnetic connection, it's perfect. However, it's also a problem when you want to find perfect alignment on the first try with your MagSafe wireless chargers. Since almost the entire back of the case is magnetic, you'll find yourself hunting to place it in the right spot to charge. Kinda defeats the purpose of MagSafe, doesn't it? Casetify Ultra Bounce MagSafe Case for $112 : Pushing $100 for a case is, frankly, crazy to me. I'm not a huge fan of the camera covers on this case—I feel like I smudge the cameras more than ever because it sits flush with the rest of the case. The volume rocker is a bit mushy too. That said, the huge bumps on the corners have a good chance of absorbing impact and protecting your phone. You'll have a hard time fitting it in a pocket, but there's a spot to attach a lanyard (not included) if you want to dangle this bulky thing on your wrist. Casetify also has tons of different designs to choose from. I have previously tested and like its Impact cases ($68) , which are still expensive, but cheaper than this.
Catalyst Influence MagSafe Case for $60 : This case has speaker ports that direct the iPhone's bottom-firing speakers at your face, and it's pretty effective! The Action button is sadly a cutout instead of a button, but it's not too hard to access. The non-Pro models have the classic Catalyst rotating button you can twist to toggle the mute switch.
Burga Elite MagSafe Case for $85 : These cases have several designs you can choose from, and they certainly look like something straight out of New York Fashion Week. The buttons are solid, the screen is protected a bit via raised edges, and while the Action button on the Pro models is a cutout instead of a button, it's not hard to access. The MagSafe connection is reliable, and it's decently grippy. Burga also has a non-MagSafe case ($35) if you don't care for magnets, but it feels decidedly cheaper.
Wave Case MagSafe Case for $44: These cases have a cutout for the Action button on the Pro models, but it's relatively easy to access. The MagSafe support is solid, and they're otherwise perfectly functional. They're just a little dull. What's not dull is that they're made from biodegradable wheat straw and come in 100 percent recyclable packaging.
UAG Pathfinder MagSafe Case for $55 : I have tested a bunch of UAG cases, and the Pathfinder is my favorite. The design, specifically in a solid color like Cloud Blue, has this spacey industrial look to it. Neat! The sides are grippy, there's a spot to attach a lanyard, and it hooks up to MagSafe accessories well. Sadly, the Action button is a cutout—but that's not a problem for the iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus and their mute switch! Speck Presidio Perfect-Clear MagSafe Case for $50 : This is a decent clear case, but the Action button is a little hard to press. It shows smudges pretty easily too. It comes with Speck's ClickLock proprietary magnetic mounting solution for added security with Speck's MagSafe accessories, but you can use any MagSafe gear with this case. It's made with 50 percent recycled plastics.
Spigen Optik Armor Magfit Case for $27 : This case is only available for the Pro models.
 It covers the rear cameras, whether you want to keep them protected or you want added privacy and peace of mind. I like the matte texture on the back. I noticed that a few reviews say they've had issues using it with wireless chargers and MagSafe accessories, but I've had no problems. The camera cover does hang off the edge when you leave it open, but you can remove it completely if you are going to shoot a lot of photos. Just don't misplace it! The Action button is a bit stiff too.
Incipio AeroGrip MagSafe Case for iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max for $60 : It doesn't rock much on a table, and true to its name, it offers a pretty good grip. However, the Action button is a cutout, and I found it a bit hard to access.
Incipio Forme Clear MagSafe Case for $50 : This is a fun clear case with a snazzy design that lights up the colors of the rainbow when light scatters on it. Like on the AeroGrip, the Action button is a cutout and hard to press, but I didn't have issues with it otherwise. It's a solid option for the non-Pro iPhones.
Mous Clarity 2.0 MagSafe Case for $70 : This clear case has a black bumper and solid MagSafe support. The buttons are clicky, and the edges around the screen are slightly raised. However, it smudges easily, and the price is far too high compared to the clear cases above.
Case-Mate D30 Ultra-Tough MagSafe Case for $55 : The access to the Action button is a cutout in this case, which is annoying, but it's otherwise quite nice. The edges are raised all around, and the buttons are clicky. The only problem? Why is there a big Case-Mate D30 logo across the back of the case? People want a clear case to see their phone, not your trademark.
Caseology Athlex Case for $10 : This case is super cheap but doesn't feel like it at all. It has a nice grippy texture that makes it feel luxe, with grooved edges that make it comfier to hold. It's only available for the Pro models , and the only flaw is the lack of MagSafe. If you don't care for Apple's magnetic accessory system, this case will satisfy.
Cyrill Kajuk Mag MagSafe Case for $27 : I tried a few Cyrill cases, including the Cecile Clear Glitter and UltraSheer Mag , and this is my favorite of the lot. It's only available for the Pro models , but it checks off all the boxes, has good MagSafe support, and even comes with a lanyard.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Mujjo Avoid These Cases and Accessories You Can Do Better Mujjo iPhone 15 MagSafe Cases for $59+ : I have been testing Mujjo cases for years and have liked them in the past. This one is a bit of a dud. The Leather Wallet Case has MagSafe on it, despite the wallet sitting on the back, and it just doesn't really connect well with MagSafe accessories. It's also not a great wallet. You can fit one card at best, and it's still a bit hard to pull it out. The standard Leather Case and Shield Case are actually fine—they have great buttons, decently raised lips to protect the screen, and lovely vegetable-tanned leather, but the MagSafe in these cases is really weak. They barely clung onto my MagSafe chargers. Save your money.
Dbrand Ghost Case for iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max for $50 : I wanted to like this MagSafe clear case. The edges are grippy and the buttons are excellent, even the Action button! However, the case scuffs up way too easily. I've only put the iPhone in and out of it a few times, and there are visible scuffs on the inner part of the clear case that are not coming off. On the Pro Max, one of the camera lenses juts out ever so slightly out of the camera module, which isn't great.
Incipio Cru MagSafe Case for $50 : On the iPhone 15 Pro Max version, the lenses stick out past the camera module, which is not what I'd want from a case. The Action button is also a cutout, though it's not too hard to access. It's a fine case otherwise, but Incipio sent me the brown faux leather , and while it feels nice, it doesn't really look like leather. And that color is just not that appealing. I had a similar experience with the camera lenses and Action button on the Incipio Duo too.
Photograph: Nomad How We Test Cases Case Study I tested cases on the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max specifically. It's worth noting that many case manufacturers left a cutout for the Action button, as they weren't sure what was happening with the mute switch. Some manufacturers are updating their cases to offer a physical button on the case instead of the cutout, so it's worth keeping an eye out if you don't want a cutout.
I closely pore over every single case in this guide before making a recommendation, checking that all the ports, microphone holes, and speakers aren't blocked and that the case fits the iPhone well. We also check to see how easy it is to access the Action button and whether the buttons are clicky or mushy. I also check MagSafe compatibility by testing cases with various accessories, like MagSafe wireless chargers and wallets.
As much as I'd like to, I do not do drop tests, because I have a finite number of iPhones. Word to the wise—case makers may claim “10-foot drop protection,” but that doesn't really mean anything. In my experience, there's still a good chance your cased-up iPhone can fall a certain way and its glass will crack unless you're using an ultra-rugged case with complete protection.
Reviews Editor X Topics Shopping apple iPhone cases Accessories and Peripherals buying guides Julian Chokkattu Brenda Stolyar Julian Chokkattu Simon Hill Saira Mueller Scott Gilbertson David Nield Medea Giordano WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
