Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Simon Hill Brian Barrett Gear How to Set Up Your New iPhone Photograph: Apple Save this story Save Save this story Save What a lovely new iPhone you have! Whichever one of the many iPhones in Apple's lineup you bought, the setup experience is nearly identical. Here’s how to get acquainted with it to ensure a two- to four-year lifetime, give or take, of happiness. Or just one, if you’re an annual upgrader. Things always go more smoothly when you're prepared, so make sure you have the following ready for the easiest possible setup: Your old phone (not essential, but it's smart to have it handy) Your SIM card (not required for eSIM activation) Your Wi-Fi details Your Apple account details (you must have an Apple account to use an iPhone) After you set up your device, check out our guides on cases—the Best iPhone 14 Cases , Best iPhone 13 Cases , and Best iPhone 12 Cases —to protect your handset, and see our Best MagSafe Accessories guide to kit it out.
Updated September 2023: We tweaked this guide to reflect the latest version of iOS and the new iPhone 15 range.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.
com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Start by backing up your old phone. If it's an iPhone, this will make copying over your data a bit easier. The simplest method is to back up to iCloud by going to Settings , tapping on your name at the top, and choosing iCloud , iCloud Backup , and tapping Back Up Now.
 You can find alternative methods and more details in our guide on how to back up your iPhone.
 You can also take advantage of Apple's Quick Start feature for switching iPhones simply by enabling Bluetooth on your old iPhone and having it nearby when you turn the new one on. We have a guide on how to switch iPhones that goes into more depth and offers some alternative methods, but we're also going to go into it below.
Photograph: Apple Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft If you’re coming over from Android, be sure to download the Move to iOS Android app from Google Play. On the Apps & Data screen during the setup process for your new iPhone, tap Move Data from Android.
 Go back to your Android phone, open the app, tap Continue , and follow the instructions from there. You can’t transfer everything, but you can bring over your contacts, messages, photos and videos, calendars, and email accounts. Some apps will even make the jump. Just be aware, depending on how much data you have, it can take a long time to move.
Photograph: Apple Stick your SIM card into your new iPhone (skip this step if you are using an eSIM) and hold down the power button to turn it on. You’ll be greeted by the Apple logo and the word “Hello” in many languages. You can then choose Quick Start (the easy way) or Set Up Manually (the hard way). Which path you choose depends on whether this is your first iPhone.
Photograph: Apple If you’re an Apple vet and have your old iPhone handy, try Quick Start for the fastest path to getting that new iPhone set up. Make sure your old iPhone is fully charged and that Bluetooth is turned on, then just bring your new iPhone close to your old one, and confirm that you want to use the same Apple ID on the new device. An animation should appear on your new device; hover your old one over it until that image appears in your viewfinder. Wait until you see Finish on New [Device] on your old iPhone. Enter your password at the prompt, and you’re on your way to setting up Face ID. From there, you can choose exactly what you want to back up, and which settings—including for Apple Watch , if you have one—you want to carry over.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Alternatively, you can simply select Other Options and Restore from iCloud Backup or Restore from Mac or PC Backup.
 Then enter your Apple ID and password, and go grab a peppermint mocha while your iPhone restarts with all of your settings, preferences, apps, and more in place. In other words, it’ll be just like your old device, but … newer.
Photograph: Apple If this is your first Apple rodeo, or you just want a fresh start and like fiddling around in menus, select Set Up Manually.
 Follow the onscreen instructions to activate your iPhone or iPad. You will connect to your Wi-Fi network, activate your eSIM or pop your physical SIM into the new device, set up a six-digit passcode, set up Face ID or Touch ID, and restore or transfer your data and apps. (You can choose to Restore from iCloud Backup , Restore from Mac or PC , Transfer Directly from iPhone , or Move Data from Android.
) People coming from Android, remember that you can use the Move to iOS app.
 You may also be interested in our useful iPhone tips for ex-Android users.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Next, you'll sign in with your Apple ID, choose whether to turn on automatic updates, and set up features like your iCloud account, FaceTime, iMessage, and Location Services. You’ll also be asked if you want to set up Siri (you do!), which includes saying a few phrases so the assistant can get to know your voice. Your final options relate to Screen Time , which tracks your device usage and lets you set limits, and some display settings like True Tone (where available) and Display Zoom to set icon and text size to suit you. It sounds like a lot of decisions and inputs, but the whole process takes only a few minutes. Better yet, none of these choices are binding; you can find them all again later in the Settings app.
Photograph: Apple Apple has supported eSIM technology since the iPhone XS. It's basically an electronic SIM card instead of the tiny, physical chip you insert into your phone for cellular connectivity. The iPhone 14 series were the first devices to completely get rid of the physical SIM card slot (in the US). That means the only way for you to set up a cellular connection in the US is with an eSIM.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft If you're unfamiliar with the process, don't worry, it's very easy. During setup, you'll be asked if you want to transfer your number from your old iPhone. Once you agree, it will take a minute or two to activate cellular data on your new iPhone, and you're good to go. Keep in mind that your old physical SIM card will effectively stop working once you do this.
If you're coming from an Android phone (with or without eSIM support), you will need to scan a QR code provided by your carrier. This might even be the case with an iPhone if you're having trouble—just contact your carrier and they should be able to sort things out quickly.
Otherwise, it’s just a matter of personalizing your preferences. Want to add an email account? Go to Settings , Mail , Accounts , and choose Add Account.
 Want to fine-tune which apps refresh in the background (and drain your battery in the process)? Head to Settings , General , Background App Refresh , and toggle your little heart out. Want to save time on web forms? Go to Settings , Safari , Autofill , and preload your contact info. You can also turn on the battery percentage view by going to Settings, Battery, and toggling on Battery Percentage.
Your new device will be running iOS 17, which boasts some important new features , but you should change these privacy settings right away.
One last recommendation: Get rid of the clutter. iOS now lets you delete Apple’s many, many stock apps. Do it! It feels great, I promise. We even have tips on how to customize your iPhone's home screens.
 Oh, and while you’re digging around in Apple’s software, go to Settings and then Focus to take advantage of the Do Not Disturb mode that lets you cut down on the constant stream of alerts.
Hitting these basics should get you started on the right path. When you're settled, read our hidden iPhone tips and tricks for more goodies. And if you're done with your old iPhone, read our instructions on how to factory reset it.
You got a cool gadget! You lucky duck. Now you’ve gotta set it up. You poor sap.
WIRED's master guide can help.
Apple Watch Google Nest Speaker Chromebook Nest Thermostat TV Android Phone Amazon Echo You Might Also Like … 📨 Make the most of chatbots with our AI Unlocked newsletter Taylor Swift, Star Wars, Stranger Things , and Deadpool have one man in common Generative AI is playing a surprising role in Israel-Hamas disinformation The new era of social media looks as bad for privacy as the last one Johnny Cash’s Taylor Swift cover predicts the boring future of AI music Your internet browser does not belong to you 🔌 Charge right into summer with the best travel adapters , power banks , and USB hubs Contributor X Executive Editor, News X Topics apple iPhone how-to phones tips ios Saira Mueller Julian Chokkattu Simon Hill Julian Chokkattu Saniya Ahmed Brenda Stolyar David Nield Adrienne So WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
