Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter David Nield Gear 7 Great USB-C Accessories for Your New iPhone 15 Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED DJI Mic $249 at DJI Anker 518 USB-C-to-HDMI Adapter $50 at Anker Apple USB-C Earpods $19 at Apple SanDisk Extreme Portable SSD $75 at Western Digital You've treated yourself to a brand-new iPhone 15 (or iPhone 15 Plus, iPhone 15 Pro , or iPhone 15 Pro Max)—so the next step is to take advantage of Apple's switch to USB-C on its flagship smartphone to pick up an accessory or three.
Accessory makers have always been quick to support the iPhone, and the introduction of USB-C hasn't slowed them down. From adding more battery life to enabling video output, you should be able to find at least one accessory of note here. And while these hardware add-ons don't always come cheap, the extra features and functionality they bring with them mean they're well worth investing in.
Photograph: DJI DJI Mic DJI DJI Mic (2 TX + 1 RX + Charging Case) It's no exaggeration to say that a wireless microphone like the DJI Mic ($ 249 ) can take the audio quality on your iPhone video recordings to the next level—just plug the USB-C adapter into your iPhone 15, clip the mic to your clothing, and you're good to go.
If you spend a serious amount of time creating content with your phone, want to start livestreaming on the web , or need that extra quality for video calls or presentations, you're well covered here.
$249 at DJI $249 at Amazon Photograph: Anker Anker 518 USB-C-to-HDMI Adapter Anker Anker 518 USB-C-to-HDMI Adapter Besides charging your iPhone 15 and transferring data to a connected computer, the USB-C port can also be used to output video—whether that's video you've recorded and saved to your phone or something playing through a streaming app.
With the Anker 518 USB-C-to-HDMI adapter ($ 50 ) and a spare HDMI cable, you can connect your iPhone 15 directly to a television. It's handy for those TVs (and monitors) that don't come with support for the Apple AirPlay wireless video streaming protocol.
$50 at Anker $28 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Apple Apple USB-C Earpods Apple Apple USB-C Earpods You don't get headphones in the box with the iPhone 15, but you can buy these wired USB-C earbuds ($ 20 ) to enjoy your music, podcasts, audiobooks, and videos. Despite the low price, you get decent audio quality.
With the in-line remote, you can easily adjust the volume, which makes them ideal for all those video calls as well—and of course you can use them on any other device with a USB-C port, from your MacBook Pro to your Android tablet.
$19 at Apple $19 at Amazon Photograph: Sandisk SanDisk Extreme Portable SSD SanDisk SanDisk Extreme Portable SSD You can connect external storage devices to the USB-C port on the iPhone 15—indeed, if you're recording 4K ProRes video on a 128-GB iPhone 15 Pro then you have to, because of all the storage that video is going to quickly use up.
The SanDisk Extreme Portable SSD ($ 75 ) is an ideal accessory for this job. Available in 500 GB, 1 TB, 2 TB, and even 4 TB capacities, it's compact enough to be taken anywhere and rugged enough that you're not going to be worried about it breaking.
$75 at Western Digital $75 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Mophie Mophie Powerstation Mini Mophie Mophie Powerstation Mini iPhone battery life has remained decent over the past few models, but it hasn't made any huge leaps forward. So if you want to make sure you're not caught without enough juice, consider a battery pack like the Mophie Powerstation Mini ($ 40.
) According to Mophie, you can get a 50 percent recharge in as little as 30 minutes, and because it has a 5,000-mAh battery, you're essentially doubling your phone's battery life. Oh, and it'll charge up your USB-C AirPods as well, if needed.
$40 at Apple Photograph: Plugable Plugable Stand and Docking Station Plugable Plugable USB-C Stand and Docking Station If you're looking for somewhere to keep your iPhone 15 at night, then the Plugable Stand and Docking Station ($ 60 ) has you covered: not only will it charge your phone, but it'll also keep the handset propped up so you can see the display.
At the base of the stand there's a hub that you can use to connect other devices, including an external display. Turn your iPhone on its side and you can run it in StandBy mode thanks to the upgrades included in iOS 17.
$60 at Plugable $60 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Caldigit CalDigit USB-C Soho Dock CalDigit USB-C Soho Dock If you don't want to choose between accessories, go for the CalDigit USB-C Soho Dock ($ 80 ): it plugs into your iPhone 15, then you can connect an external display and external storage, as well as charging up your handset while it's sitting on your desk.
Of course you don't have to use the Soho Dock exclusively for your phone. It'll do a good job of connecting all the devices you have when they need to talk to each other (or just need a battery recharge.) $80 at CalDigit $80 at Amazon Contributor X Topics Accessories and Peripherals iPhone buying guides phones USB Scott Gilbertson Scott Gilbertson Carlton Reid Reece Rogers Boone Ashworth Virginia Heffernan Matt Jancer Boone Ashworth WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
