Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Simon Hill Gear How to Back Up Your Android Phone Photograph: Google Save this story Save Save this story Save Your phone is the guardian of your digital life. It has that video of your child’s first words, the heart-warming message from your significant other that never fails to cheer you up, and the latest save from your favorite mobile game.
 You have invested time in getting it just the way you want, and there are irreplaceable memories onboard. Spending a couple of minutes backing up is a small price to pay to ensure you don’t lose it all.
We will show you how to back up your Android phone in a few ways, so pick the one that appeals. We have separate guides on how to back up your iPhone and how to back up your computer.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.
com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
The simplest and easiest backup option is Google’s cloud service , which is built into Android.
Android via Simon Hill Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Go to Settings , Google , and choose Backup.
You can see how much storage is available for the Google account you are signed into listed at the top.
Below that, you will likely see an option that says Backup to Google Drive with a toggle next to it. (If you have Google One installed, it might say Backup to Google One.
) Make sure it is toggled on.
There is a Back up now button beneath. Tap it. Remember that backups can take several hours to complete if you haven't backed up before. It’s best to leave your phone plugged into a charger and connected to Wi-Fi overnight.
The section at the bottom shows details of your backup. Tap on Photos & Videos and make sure that Back up & sync is toggled on. You can also do this in the menu in the Google Photos app.
At the bottom of the Backup details section, you can tap Google Account data (also accessible via Settings , Accounts , [Your Google Account] , Account sync ). This is where you can choose what to sync with your Google Account. The list of toggles that appears here differs based on the apps and services you use.
Photograph: Simon Hill You can find your backups in the Google Drive app by tapping the menu at the top left and choosing Backups.
It can be a challenge to stay under Google Drive’s free 15 GB of storage , so you might consider signing up for a plan with Google One. You can get 100 GB for $2 per month or $20 annually, 200 GB for $3 per month or $30 annually, and 2 TB for $10 per month or $100 annually. You can share this storage with up to six family members.
The Google One app offers more insight and control for your backups, found on the Storage tab listed under Device Backup.
You might not want to pay for extra space, so let’s look at how to back up files directly to your computer before we dip into alternative backup services.
Photograph: Simon Hill It is easy to back up files from your Android phone on a Windows PC. Here’s how: Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Plug your phone into a USB port on your desktop or laptop.
Drag down the notification shade on your phone and look for a notification from Android System that says something like Charging this device via USB , Tap for more options and tap it.
Look for an option that says File transfer and select it.
A window should now pop up on your PC, or you can open Windows File Explorer and click your phone listed in the left pane under This PC.
You can dig into folders and copy and paste any files you want to back up. This isn’t the most user-friendly layout, though. For example, your photos will probably be in a folder labeled DCIM , Camera.
If you want something like iTunes to manage this process or an app to manage a wireless backup from phone to PC, then you can find various premium options online, though we don’t recommend any of them. If you're trying to send files from your Android phone to a PC, try using Microsoft’s free Your Phone app.
To back up files from your Android phone on a Mac is also pretty straightforward. Here’s how: Install the official Android File Transfer app on your Mac.
Plug your phone into a USB port on your Mac.
An Android File Transfer window should open on your Mac, and you will see a list of folders and files on your phone.
Dig in and copy and paste any files you want to back up. You may have to search to find the files you want. For example, your photos will be in a folder labeled DCIM , Camera.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft There are some premium apps for MacOS that offer more of an iTunes-like experience, but nothing that we vouch for.
Here is how to back up files from your Android phone on a Chromebook: Plug your phone into a USB port on your Chromebook.
Drag down the notification shade and look for a notification from Android System that says something like Charging this device via USB , Tap for more options and tap it.
Look for an option that says File transfer and select it.
The Files app will open on your Chromebook, and you can drag any files you want to copy over.
Maybe you have run out of Google storage, or you prefer another cloud service. There are Android apps for Dropbox , Microsoft’s OneDrive , MEGA , Box , and others. Most of them offer some cloud storage for free, but what you can back up and how you do it differs from app to app.
We looked at how to back up mobile photos on a few of these before, and you can usually set that up to be automatic, though other files often have to be backed up manually. If you want to automatically sync photos and other files across devices using one of these services, then check out the Autosync app.
 There are specific versions for Dropbox , OneDrive , MEGA , and Box.
Whatever service you choose, make sure to keep your cloud storage safe and secure.
If you have a Samsung phone, then you have additional backup options. We recommend sticking with Google, because Samsung backups can be restored only to Samsung phones, but if you want a second backup or you plan to stick with Samsung, here’s how to use Samsung’s cloud service: Go to Settings , Accounts and backup , then Backup and restore.
Under Samsung account, tap Back up data (the option to back up through your Google account is listed here too). You will have to create and sign in to your Samsung account if you haven’t already done so.
Tick everything you want to back up and tap Back up at the bottom.
Samsung also offers Smart Switch , an app that lets you back up your smartphone onto a Windows or Mac computer. It makes it easy for anyone switching to a Samsung phone to copy over all their data. Sadly, although Smart Switch backups can be made from most smartphones, they can only be restored to Samsung phones.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! Rain boots, turning tides, and the search for a missing boy Better data on ivermectin is finally on the way A bad solar storm could cause an “internet apocalypse” New York City wasn't built for 21st-century storms 9 PC games you can play forever 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database 🎮 WIRED Games: Get the latest tips, reviews, and more 🏃🏽‍♀️ Want the best tools to get healthy? Check out our Gear team’s picks for the best fitness trackers , running gear (including shoes and socks ), and best headphones Contributor X Topics how-to phones Android Android phones tips Google Julian Chokkattu Nena Farrell Simon Hill Julian Chokkattu Julian Chokkattu Boone Ashworth Julian Chokkattu Simon Hill WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
