Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Medea Giordano Victoria Woollaston-Webber Gear Our Favorite Hair Dryers and Diffusers Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Best for Most People $40 at Walmart The Mother of All Dryers $399 at Amazon A Surprisingly Nice Cordless Dryer $450 at Volo Unique Attachments $230 at Amazon (Sleek Bundle) Hair is a fun and annoying thing. You can cut it , dye it , straighten it , curl it , or let it sit in a knot for days on end. When you want to get a polished look or just need to dry your hair quickly, you may consider a blow-dryer.
Even if you don't use it every day, it's good to have one on hand for certain situations—like when you're rushing to work straight out of the shower, your finicky curls need to be tamed, or you crave smooth, glossy locks. Whatever the reason, there's an infinite number of hair dryers out there in every price range, and from a dizzying array of brands. If you have easy-to-manage hair that just needs to dry faster, you can probably go with any cheap dryer you find at your local CVS. But some of us have more temperamental hair that needs specific care. We've tried standard blow-dryers, blow-dry brushes, diffusers, and multi-use tools to find the best. These are our favorites.
Be sure to read our other hair and beauty guides, the Best Hair Straighteners , Best Curling Irons , and Best Creams and Tools for Removing Hair.
Updated October 2023: We added the Laifen SE and Shark SpeedStyle hair dryers.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-Year Subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Hairitage Best for Most People Hairitage Comin' In Hot Dryer You don't have to spend a lot to get a great hair dryer. Hairitage's Comin' In Hot Hair Dryer is compact, light, and less than $40. For most people who need a basic dryer, this will be fine, and the gray and rose-gold design is pretty, with an almost velvety-soft coating. The brand now also has its own diffuser , something we noted it was lacking previously. There's also a comb attachment for stretching hair as you dry.
Two speeds, three heat settings, a cold shot button, and uses ions.
$40 at Walmart Photograph: RevAir The Mother of All Dryers RevAir Reverse-Air Dryer (2022) The RevAir is the only thing to dramatically cut down on styling time—and damage—when I want to wear my curls straight. I've been obsessed with the RevAir since trying it in 2021 , and the 2022 updated version is smaller and lighter than the original, but it's more expensive and still a large device you'll need to store.
After sectioning your wet or damp hair, you feed each section into the wand, like a vacuum, and the device dries and straightens in one step. Tiny openings at the tip of the wand direct air out to dry your scalp, while the rest of your hair is dried with air going down, so you don't get frizzy. Crazy, I know, but it works. Wet curls went in and dry straight hair came out in around 30 seconds. I still had to use a flat iron to smooth my hair, because its natural state is a puff, but I used the RevAir on a friend whose curls are soft, fine, and down to her hips. She didn't have to use a flat iron at all.
Seven speeds/tensions and two temperature settings, plus a cold setting.
$399 at Amazon $469 at RevAir (Accessories Bundle) Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Neslihan Ostrowski/Volo A Surprisingly Nice Cordless Dryer Volo Go Cordless Dryer I was far more impressed by this dryer than I thought I would be. On the surface, it doesn't seem like it would work for most people: It has just one speed setting, and its heat settings are Cold, Full Heat (172 degrees Fahrenheit), or Smart, which automatically adjusts the heat as your hair dries. It also doesn't have a diffuser and it's very expensive. But alas, it became one of my favorites.
I've never been able to dry my hair in its natural state without a diffuser, unless I'm planning on going through it with a flat iron later. I thought the Volo would destroy my curls, but it didn't. The speed was just enough to dry the hair, but it doesn't blow it all over the place, so curls are left intact—some diffusers do more harm than this did. Likewise, it's hot enough to dry the hair, but doesn't burn your flesh as it flashes across your face. Being cordless is nice, but it weighs around 2.8 pounds, and that starts to feel heavy quickly. The battery lasts roughly 25 minutes or so, which is usually not enough time for my hair to be completely dry. On a normal day, I only dry it halfway and plop my curls before or after (occasionally using Volo's own hair towel ), but that could be a dealbreaker for some.
One speed and two heat settings, plus cold.
$450 at Volo Photograph: Shark Unique Attachments Shark HyperAir Blow Dryer The vacuum brand Shark swept into hair care with this dryer, and I'm impressed. The powerful HyperAir comes with a brush attachment to turn it into a blow-dry brush. You rotate the attachment with a button on top for better positioning, which is a lot easier than trying to blow your hair out with a separate brush and dryer. The nozzle of the air concentrator can expand or shrink depending on how you're styling—a lot of dryers come with two, so it's nice that this is a two-in-one. You can also shorten or lengthen the diffuser prongs, depending on your hair length and whether you want to dry the roots.
There are straight and curly hair versions with specific attachments, and you can buy those separately.
Three speeds, three heat settings plus a cold-shot button, and uses ions.
★ Alternative: Shark’s new SpeedStyle dryer is smaller and lighter than the HyperAir. It's not as powerful as that one, and it took a little longer to dry my very thick hair, but it still does a great job at drying and styling. I was most impressed by the RapidGloss Finisher that tamed what I thought was forever frizz. You can get the whole set for $260 , buy bundles for straight or curly hair for $200, or choose your own two-attachment bundle for $180.
 In addition to the RapidGloss Finisher, there is a concentrator, diffuser, wide-tooth comb, and two types of brushes.
$230 at Amazon (Sleek Bundle) $230 at Walmart (Curly Bundle) Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Paul Mitchell For Blowouts or Travel Paul Mitchell Neuro Grip Hair Dryer It feels incredibly wrong to hold a hair dryer with no handle, but I got used to it. About halfway through drying my hair, I realized the Neuro Grip would be perfect for anyone who does blowouts the old-school way with a round brush and a separate dryer. Blowouts aren't my forte, but it's a lot more comfortable to hold the Neuro Grip at the necessary angles than a handled dryer. It's also great for traveling, because it takes up significantly less space and comes with a collapsible diffuser.
Paul Mitchell flat irons have been a favorite of mine since I first used one in 2012.
Three speeds and three heat settings, plus a cold setting.
★ Alternative: Panasonic's full-size Nanoe dryer is in our honorable mentions, and recently the brand released a compact version ($100) that's great if you travel or have minimal space in your bathroom. When you're not using it, the handle folds in. It has the same oscillating quick-dry nozzle that moves back and forth in the same motion you might do with your hand while drying.
$154 at Amazon $154 at Paul Mitchell Photograph: Zuvi If You Prefer Less Heat Zuvi Halo Hair Dryer The Zuvi Halo Hair Dryer is expensive, but it works really well, drying hair quickly with way less heat than you'd expect. It does this by using infrared heat rather than convective heat , meaning it can dry your hair without making the entire room burn up to oven-like conditions. Zuvi says it heats just the outside of your hair instead of frying it deep to its core, which is difficult to test. That said, this dried my hair quicker and with lower heat than other models.
The Halo comes with a standard air concentrator and diffuser attachment, but it includes a unique gentle air attachment that helps output even softer and cooler air.
Four settings that combine heat and speed, plus a cold shot by holding down the mode button.
$349 at Zuvi Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Laifen Fast-Drying and Pretty Colors Laifen SE Hair Dryer I wasn't expecting to be wowed by this dryer, but I was. It's compact and similar in design to the Dyson, and also painted in gorgeous colors—I tried the lavender one. It's also the cheapest of Laifen's lineup and, importantly, it really did dry my hair quickly. It claims to dry a full head of hair in 10 to 15 minutes. It took me around 45 minutes to diffuse and dry, but I have more hair than multiple people combined, so I think it's still a fair estimate. It does it without singeing your head off—it has settings for 122 and 176 degrees Fahrenheit.
Two speeds and two heat settings, plus cold.
$150 at Amazon $150 at Laifen Photograph: DevaCurl For Voluminous Curls DevaDryer with DevaFuser As the brand name suggests, DevaCurl focuses only on curl products. The company settled a class-action suit after its shampoos and conditioners caused hair to fall out. However, the dryer and diffuser not creams or gels, and I like them. (These were also recommended to me by many curly Sues.) The dryer is light and easy to maneuver, but the star of the show is its diffuser. Most diffusers are designed the same way: circular, with little nubs to help lift your curls. But the DevaFuser looks like a big green hand. It mimics the effects of hand scrunching, carefully cradles the ends of your curls, and can get right into the roots to create volume and definition. Any diffuser will work, but if you haven't liked the outcome of traditional ones in the past, you may want to give this one a go.
Two speeds, three heat settings plus a cold shot button, and uses ions.
★ Alternative: If you have a dryer you like or want to save some money, DevaCurl sells a universal version of its diffuser ($55) , which should fit most standard dryer barrels. You should check your hair dryer's measurements against DevaCurl's website , but if it doesn't fit, the company offers returns within 60 days.
$180 at Ulta $55 at Ulta (Diffuser Only) Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Shark A Complete Hairstyling Tool Shark FlexStyle Drying & Styling System If you're intrigued by Shark's hair dryer, but also want a curling iron and a blow dry brush, go with the brand's FlexStyle. It's a direct dupe of the Dyson Airwrap for significantly less cash. I think it even outshines Dyson because it's actually a full-fledged hair dryer with attachments, plus curling barrels and hot brushes. With the Airwrap, the dryer attachment is almost an afterthought—it's for people who don't have curls that are always fighting frizz.
Like Shark's standalone dryer, there are bundles for straight or curly hair, plus a build-your-own option for $250.
Three speeds, three heat settings plus a cold shot button.
★ Alternative: Absolutely set on going with the Airwrap ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends )? It was updated with slightly redesigned attachments. The primary attraction is the curling wands, but there are three different types of hot brushes for blowouts too.
$300 at Amazon (Straight/Wavy Hair) $300 at Shark (Curly Hair) $280 at Shark (Choose 3 Kit) Photograph: Dyson If You're a Dyson Loyalist Dyson Supersonic Dyson has made a thriving business by turning ordinary household products into premium consumer goods, including the compact Supersonic Dryer ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ). It uses the same technology as the company's bladeless fans. The speed and heat settings are on the back of the barrel, so you won't accidentally hit them when you're styling. Plus, there's one more speed setting than with most of the above options. The Supersonic has what the company calls intelligent heat control that measures the temperature 40 times a second to prevent extreme damage. (This technology is also in its straightener at 100 times a second.) It has a nice diffuser and two air concentrators that attach to the barrel magnetically. But like all Dyson products, it comes at a high price. It's not much more than the RevAir though, and the one perk it has over it is its size—the Supersonic takes up a lot less space.
Three speeds, three heat settings plus a cold shot button, and uses ions.
$430 at Ulta $430 at Best Buy $430 at Dyson Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Revlon For Volume, Bounce, and Movement Revlon Volumizer Plus 2.0 The Revlon Volumizer Plus is the newer, smaller, faster version of Revlon’s two-in-one styler.
It has a 2-inch, oval-shaped hot brush barrel that dries and styles hair at the same time. I have fine, limp hair, and the Volumizer Plus is the only dryer I’ve used that gives me the bounce, volume, and movement I crave. It’s also quick—it dries and styles my hair in just under six minutes—and really easy, because you don’t have to be a blow-drying whizz to use it. It cuts out all the maneuvering that comes with using standard dryers and separate brushes.
It’s also great at bringing second-day hair back to life. The barrel is covered in nylon and charcoal pins, and the charcoal is said to help strip the hair of any build-up and “buff away” impurities. The brush is detachable, which makes it easy to store or travel with. Note: Make sure not to confuse this with Revlon’s original One-Step dryer , which had to be recalled in the UK in 2020 over reports of overheating and safety. — Victoria Woollaston-Webber Two speeds and two heat settings, plus cool.
$40 at Amazon $43 at Walmart Photograph: Hot Tools Powerful Styling, Less Noise Hot Tools Pro Artist Quietair A lot of hair dryers claim to be quiet, and until recently, the Dyson Supersonic was the only dryer I’d tried that lived up to these claims. That was until I tested the Hot Tools Pro Artist Quietair. I usually can’t hear my 4-year-old shouting my name or asking for snacks while drying my hair, but with the Hot Tools Quietair, I could easily have a full-blown conversation with him without having to turn the dryer off, even with the speed set to high. It’s so quiet, in fact, it’s Quiet Mark–certified. Quiet Mark is an independent organization that assesses how much noise pollution household products produce.
I had expected the performance of this dryer to suffer a little to account for the lower noise, but it doesn’t seem like you have to sacrifice any power. Even on the low-heat/low-speed setting, it dried my hair within minutes and left it looking and feeling soft and smooth thanks to its anti-frizz, ionizing technology. The high-speed setting is so strong that when I put the dryer down while it was still switched on, it blew straight off my dresser! Not exactly a complaint, but worth noting. — Victoria Woollaston-Webber Three speed settings and two heat settings, plus cool.
$69 at Amazon $58 at Walmart Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: DryBar For a Shiny, Smooth Finish DryBar Buttercup Its bright yellow design may be an acquired taste, but the Drybar Buttercup dryer is one of the best dryers I’ve tried for leaving my hair looking shiny and smooth, all in super quick time and without excess heat. This is one of a small number of dryers where the hottest heat setting doesn’t feel like it’s burning my scalp, even while I’m attempting to add volume to my roots.
It comes with two nozzles, and both have small little notches cut into them. This seemingly helps with the distribution of heat and airflow and means that the Buttercup doesn’t end up overdrying the hair, which can cause it to look dry and frizzy. Instead, both attachments help to create shine, even on blonde hair. It’s a lightweight, well-balanced dryer too, even with the nozzles attached, and I never experienced any aching arms. Nor did I ever have trouble maneuvering it around my head.
Design-wise, the positioning of the speed and heat controls don’t quite work—I manage to change at least one of the settings accidentally every time I use this dryer—but this is a small complaint on an overall recommendation. — Victoria Woollaston-Webber Two heat and two speed settings, plus cool.
$199 at Amazon $199 at Target $199 at Drybar Photograph: Chi The Lightest, Thinnest Dryers We Tried Upgrades Worth Considering From the time the first hair dryer was introduced for home use in the 1920s , every one looked nearly identical until Dyson debuted its Supersonic dryer in 2016, which matched the design of its bladeless fans. Now, several companies are adapting their drying tech into the lightest, thinnest package possible, looking more like a heat gun than a hair dryer (I guess these are a type of heat gun, technically).
I've used these three. They're each less than a pound, relatively quiet, and have self-cleaning functions—you take the filter cover off the back and activate cleaning mode; the dryers shoot air in reverse to push dust and debris out. While each one stands out on its own, I wish I could combine all three for one perfect dryer.
Chi Lava Pro for $337 : This one is slightly lighter than the other two. It has an LED screen indicating the exact temperature, which is a nice but rare feature, and there are four heat settings from cool to 250 degrees Fahrenheit. The big flaw, however, is that far too much air comes through the diffuser, blowing hair around more than should happen with that attachment.
Gama IQ2 Perfetto for $430 : The Gama dryer is sleek and includes a safety feature to automatically turn off should it overheat (it did not do this in testing, thankfully). There's a setting lock so you can dry your hair without accidentally changing the speed or heat. Plus, it comes with a silicone mat that puts the dryer into standby mode automatically when you place it down, turning back on when you pick it up. This is really helpful if you're sectioning off hair for a blowout, and frequently have to put the dryer down. But it's expensive and the magnetic filter cover constantly falls off.
Bio Ionic Smart-X High-Efficiency Dryer for $329 : This Bio Ionic also has a settings lock, which I now believe should be on every styling tool. I prefer the look of this one the best, however, it doesn't come with a diffuser, which I think should be standard at this price point.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Bed Head More Great Blow-Dryers Honorable Mentions There are simply too many hair dryers out there. Here are a few more we've tried and like.
T3 Aireluxe for $200 : Oh how I love this dryer. It's constructed out of plastic, but that makes it so light and effortless to use. There are five heat and three speed settings. I just wish it came with a diffuser.
Kosa The Triple Threat Blow Dryer for $159 : This hair dryer is basic, but it's the one I reached for often when I needed my hair to go from soaking wet to completely dry. It's light and compact, similar to the Hairitage, which made those longer sessions easier to handle. The diffuser is nice and big too, and it comes with two air concentrators. (I also really like the pink color.) I just think it's expensive for what it is. Kosa's hair straightener is similarly good but pricey.
Bed Head Curls in Check Diffuser Hair Dryer for $25 : Everything about the Bed Head brand screams ’90s in the best way, including the design of this hair dryer. It's cheap and works nicely to dry curls without disrupting their pattern. It's super light and thin, and at 4 inches wide, the mouth of the dryer is larger than any I've seen. However, I wish there was a medium speed setting, because the low setting is too low, and high can cause frizz in some hair, even with the diffuser.
Panasonic Nanoe Hair Dryer for $160 : This dryer comes with a few attachments, including an oscillating quick-dry nozzle that rapidly moves side to side as you dry, mimicking the back and forth motion you might make with your hand. The low setting was too low for me, and the high was too much for my hair. But if you don't use the diffuser, I like the oscillating nozzle a lot. Panasonic also claims the dryer uses electrostatic shock to disperse water molecules into tinier nano-sized particles, which might reduce damage.
InfinitiPro by Conair Hair Dryer for $40 : This is a great budget option if you don't use a dryer every day. Its low setting is higher than the two mentioned above, so it will work faster on frizz-prone curls.
Photograph: Drybar If You Need a Quick Blowout Honorable Mentions We love the Shark FlexStyle mentioned above, which includes hot brushes for blowouts, but you can spend less and still get a solid machine.
T3 Airebrush Duo for $190 : T3 hair products work well ( I love its flat iron ) and are typically pretty lightweight, making them easy to use. This set comes with round and paddle-brush attachments to get whatever look you're trying to achieve. It's more expensive than the Hot Tools option below that can also be interchanged, but it does have more heat (five versus one) and speed (three versus two) settings.
Drybar Double Shot Blow Dryer Brush for $155 : WIRED senior associate editor Adrienne So says the Drybar Double Shot is nicer than the Revlon One-Step, because it made her hair smoother and straighter. However, it's nearly $100 more and took more time to dry, because the air-flow openings are smaller. She says you can get a good-enough hairstyle in 10 minutes with the Revlon, or get a really nice one in 30 minutes with the Drybar. It also comes in a smaller version ($155).
Hot Tools Signature Series One Step Blowout for $48 : WIRED editor Adrienne So says it did a pretty good job in 10 minutes, but not as good as the Revlon or Drybar. It requires a little more time and finesse.
Shark SmoothStyle Heated Comb Straightener and Smoother for $100 : Adrienne said this is a perfectly fine tool. The build quality felt solid and she was able to get reasonable results in 15 minutes. However, she didn't see anything that makes it a better or more attractive option than our other picks.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Dyson A Wet-to-Straight Tool That Doesn’t Sizzle Dyson Airstrait Straightener The Airstrait ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) is Dyson's latest bit of innovation. It's a straightener, but uses airflow instead of two hot plates to dry and straighten hair simultaneously. This isn't the type of wet-to-dry styler you might remember burning your hair to a crisp in the ’00s; it actually works with less heat than a flat iron. You can also close the plates to use the device separately as a dryer. Though, if you don't plan on straightening it and only want to dry your hair, thinner hair will be easier to manage.
Results vary based on hair type. WIRED reviewer Brenda Stoylar had amazing results on her wet curls, but my coarser, curlier hair straightened better when it was damp or dry.
Buy at Amazon $500 at Dyson $500 at Ulta Photograph: Amazon You Need This Dryer Hood Bonnet Hood Dryer Attachment Even the best, most powerful hair dryers on this list can't give me results like this $20 dryer hood attachment does. It works to dry all hair types, but curlies will probably see the most benefit, especially if diffusing usually takes more than an hour for you.
It fits any standard hair dryer—larger mouth ones like the Shark and Dyson will need to use their concentrator attachments. As the air from the dryer travels up the hose, it inflates the inside of the hood, releasing air through its many ventilation holes. Your hair dries quickly and evenly.
$19 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Rizos Curls More Dryer Accessories To Pair With Your Hot Tools A good hair dryer can't always stand alone. You might need a few other accessories.
Get a diffuser if your dryer doesn't come with one.
The Rizos Curls Travel Diffuser ($20) is affordable and compact, and does the job. It folds into itself, so you can easily store it or pack it in a bag. It also fits most dryers, because it can be attached in two ways: Slip it over a standard, long and thin barrel as is, or fold the attachment part inward to create an opening to grip onto wider barrels, like on the Hairitage dryer. It won't fit super-wide dryers like the Dyson or the Tineco, but those come with their own.
Get a quality hair towel to avoid frizz and breakage.
A regular body towel is too rough on hair, especially fragile curls. A plain old cotton T-shirt works great for drying, and you likely have one in your closet that you no longer wear. You'll find specific hair towels anywhere you shop for hair products, but I love the extra large Aquis Microfiber Hair Towel for $25 and TO112's Bamboo Wrap for $39.
 Bamboo is also better for the environment than microfiber, which is made from plastic.
Use a heat protectant.
You can use sprays before you start drying to keep your hair safe.
Chi's 44 Iron Guard Thermal Protection for $12 comes highly recommended.
Moroccanoil also makes solid products, but they cost a bit more.
Photograph: Getty Images A Glossary of Hair Dryer Terms Before You Buy Air Concentrator: Most dryers come with diffusers and concentrators. The latter directs air only to where you're pointing it, so your hair doesn't blow all over the place if you're using a brush. This also works well for drying bangs. If you have curly hair, opt for a diffuser instead.
Diffuser: Diffusers disperse the air around your curls so it doesn't disrupt the natural curl patterns and cause frizz. If you've ever used a blow-dryer on curly or wavy hair without one, you know the mess it causes. A diffuser is best for curls, but if you have frizz-prone hair of any type, it might make a difference in your styling.
Cool Shot Button: Blasting cold air after you heat dry can help set a style in place and reduce frizz. Most hair dryers have either a cool setting and/or a cool shot button that's even colder. The stand-alone button is for ending each section with cold air without having to change the settings back once you move on to another section.
Speed and Heat Settings: These settings control the rate at which air is blown out of the dryer and the temperature of the air, in addition to the separate cold button. We prefer hair dryers with more options.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Illustration: Getty Images Do You Need an Ionizing Dryer? Do They Really Work? When looking into hot hair tools, you'll see a lot of mentions of negative ions. As we explain in our hair straightener guide , it's not just advertising mumbo jumbo. Negative ions help reduce frizz and increase shine.
Abra McField, founder of Abra Kadabra Hair and Healing , explains that ionic dryers reduce the water's surface tension and help break up water droplets. This reduces tangles, helps close the cuticle on the outside layer of your hair strand, and makes drying quicker and easier. "This requires less heat, less time, and less effort,” McField says. Less heat equals less damage.
McField said those with finer hair who want to up the volume might not like ionic dryers and should look for one with a switch that can turn the ions on or off. Most of the models we tried use ions, but none have the option to turn them off. If you are looking to achieve maximum volume, try one of the blow-dry brushes instead.
Writer and Reviewer X Wired Contributor Topics Shopping fashion & beauty household buying guides home Louryn Strampe Adrienne So Matt Jancer Eric Ravenscraft Pia Ceres Scott Gilbertson Simon Hill Scott Gilbertson WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
