Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Special Issue: Power in AI Letter from the editor Arguably more than any massive transformational technological epoch, AI has required more scrutiny of its ethical implications because of its breadth, real or perceived lack of explainability, and the uniquely dramatic impact it can have on people’s daily lives.
But ultimately, when we talk about ethics in AI, so often what we’re really talking about is power — who wields it, who doesn’t, and what that means for humanity.
Power can be won, or taken away. Power can be given, or taken back. And power in AI, it turns out, amplifies all of the power structures (and disempowerment structures) that already exist in business, government, and society.
Through the lens of power, we’ve found fresh insight for ourselves that we hope translates to the page, for you the reader.
In this issue AI ethics is all about power Facial recognition regulation is surprisingly bipartisan When AI is a tool, and when it’s a weapon As AI grows, users deserve tools to limit its access to personal data AI-generated fake content could unleash a virtual arms race AI in patent law: Enabler or hindrance? Richard Bartle interview: How game developers should think about sapient AI characters From black box to white box: Reclaiming human power in AI (Sponsored) The pitfalls of a ‘retrofit human’ in AI systems AI ethics is all about power Khari Johnson Ethics is one of the most important topics in AI, but the larger story is about power — who wields it, who doesn’t, and what that means for humanity Facial recognition regulation is surprisingly bipartisan Khari Johnson Bipartisanship in modern politics can seem kind of like a unicorn, but around the issue of facial recognition, we’re getting a glimpse of it.
When AI is a tool, and when it’s a weapon Seth Colaner In AI, the question of what is a tool and what is a weapon depends on who wields it, what they plan to do with it, to or for whom, and why.
If mankind’s so-called technological progress were to become an enemy of the common good, this would lead to an unfortunate regression to a form of barbarism dictated by the law of the strongest.
As AI grows, users deserve tools to limit its access to personal data Jeremy Horwitz Back in 1984, “The Terminator” warned viewers that networked AI could threaten human life. Today, we trust AI with personal data — perhaps too much.
AI-generated fake content could unleash a virtual arms race Chris O’Brien Fractl created a fake marketing blog in less than an hour using publicly available AI tools. The implications for content on the web are frightening.
AI in patent law: Enabler or hindrance? Kyle Wiggers Patent-creating AI and machine learning systems are tricky business. To what extent are they capable of creating, and how should they be curtailed? Those who control the physics of a reality are the gods of that reality.
Richard Bartle interview: How game developers should think about sapient AI characters Dean Takahashi Game developers are gods of virtual beings. Players are demigods. But should we be? From black box to white box: Reclaiming human power in AI (Sponsored) Florian Douetteau, CEO, Dataiku We need to move past black-box models towards explainable white-box models that serve business needs, with an acceptable level of accuracy.
The pitfalls of a ‘retrofit human’ in AI systems Dr. Rumman Chowdhury, Accenture Responsible AI system design requires humans in the loop who are empowered to influence outcomes, rather than be subject to the limitations of technology.
If guided properly, the age of AI could usher in an era of productivity and prosperity for all. However, if we don’t harness it responsibly and share the gains equitably, it will lead to greater concentrations of wealth and power for the elite few who usher in this new age — and poverty, powerlessness, and a lost sense of purpose for the global majority.
For more AI news and features, visit our AI channel.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
