Indaba Programme Posters and Demos Coding and Practical Sessions Workshops Location and Venue Accomodation Useful Contacts Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Code of Ethics and Conduct Sponsorship Organisers IndabaX Awards Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Indaba Ubantu Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Indaba Programme Posters and Demos Coding and Practical Sessions Workshops Location and Venue Accomodation Useful Contacts Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Code of Ethics and Conduct Sponsorship Organisers IndabaX Awards Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Indaba Ubantu Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Awards Key Dates Nominations for the Kambule and Maathai awards are not yet open. Please check again soon.
The Deep Learning Indaba is proud to host the Kambule, Maathai and Umuntu Awards.
The Kambule Doctoral Award recognises and encourages excellence in research and writing by doctoral candidates at African universities, in any area of computational and statistical sciences.
The Kambule Masters Award recognises excellence by Masters degree candidates at African universities, in any area of computational and statistical sciences.
The Maathai Impact Award encourages and recognises work by African innovators that shows impactful application of machine learning and artificial intelligence.
The Umuntu Award for Services to the African Machine Learning Community is awarded at the discretion of the Indaba’s Board of Trustees to recognise individuals or teams who have gone beyond the call of duty to support our African community.
These awards celebrate those who show the strength of African machine learning, and we encourage as many applications from across our continent as possible. Information on eligibility and selection criteria, and to apply will be available later.
English French KiSwahili Arabic Contact us Deep Learning Indaba Strengthening African Machine Learning info@deeplearningindaba.com Indaba 2022 Location and Venue Sponsorship IndabaX Awards Mentorship Blog About Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
