Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Cade Metz Business For Google, the AI Talent Race Leads Straight to Canada David Ramos/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save America's biggest tech companies are remaking the internet through artificial intelligence. And more than ever, these companies are looking north to Canada for the ideas that will advance AI itself.
This morning, Google announced it's starting an AI lab in Toronto. At the same time, it's helping to fund a public-private partnership with the University of Toronto to develop and commercialize AI talent and ideas. In November, the company made a similar move in Montreal —a city that has also attracted Microsoft's attention.
Google Opens Montreal AI Lab to Snag Scarce Global Talent The Battle for Top AI Talent Only Gets Tougher From Here Google, Facebook, and Microsoft Are Remaking Themselves Around AI The Canadian connection is hardly coincidental: Universities in Toronto and Montreal have played a big role in the rise of deep learning, a collection of AI techniques that allows machines to learn tasks by analyzing large amounts of data. As deep learning remakes the likes of Google and Microsoft, Canada has become a hotbed for new talent.
Geoff Hinton, one of the founding fathers of the deep learning movement and a professor at the University of Toronto, has worked for Google since 2012 and will run its new Toronto lab. Hinton says that this is partly a way for him to spend more of his time in the city. The lab will stay small and focus on basic research, he says. At the same time, it will enable Google to maintain a grip on the AI talent coming out of Toronto—a strategic move with deep learning experts among the most prized talent in tech world. "There will be new researchers," Hinton says.
Meanwhile, Google is investing $5 million in the Vector Institute, a brand new AI research lab backed by the Ontario government, the Canadian federal government, and as many as thirty other companies. Hinton will serve as a primary advisor. Also based in Toronto, the lab is an effort to bridge the gap between university research and companies like Google. "We want to support more research," says Jordan Jacobs, co-founder of an AI company called Layer 6 and a former media and technology lawyer who helped create the new lab. "But also help commercialize---help companies that need to hire." All told, government and corporate players have invested some $180 million in the lab altogether. It's clearly a sign that Canada is serious about cultivating its status as an AI hotbed, even as some in the Trump administration downplay its importance.
 "We've re-established Toronto's preeminence as the center of deep learning," he says (though universities in Britain, France, Switzerland, and other parts of Europe have also played a big part in advancing this movement). Either way Canada is indeed a feast of AI research, and the big American companies want to make sure they have a seat at the table.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Senior Writer X Topics artificial intelligence Silicon Valley Peter Guest Steven Levy Khari Johnson Will Knight Paresh Dave Will Knight Niamh Rowe Will Knight Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
