Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Mojo Vision reveals the world’s smallest and densest micro display Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Mojo Vision was able to create extremely small and dense displays. They also used a tiny bit of power.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Mojo Vision has revealed its Mojo Vision 14K pixel-per-inch display, which makes it the smallest, densest dynamic display ever made.
The Saratoga, California-based company unveiled the monochrome prototype at the Augmented World Expo event in Santa Clara, California. I saw a demo of it, peering at the moving images on a dot via a microscope. It looks like they’re putting their $108 million in funding to good use.
The screen makes it a candidate for ultra-small and dense augmented reality and virtual reality displays. The prototype powers tiny pixels, with a pixel density 300 times greater than current smartphone displays. Mojo Vision can put 15 pixels in a space the size of a red blood cell.
When I looked at it through the microscope, it was pretty clear. It was green, like the way you see in night vision equipment, and it’s conceivable it could be used for that, said Steve Sinclair, senior vice president of product and marketing at Mojo Vision, in an interview with VentureBeat.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The display uses MicroLEDs, a technology expected to play a critical role in the future development of next-generation wearables, AR/VR hardware, and heads-up displays (HUDs).
“It is information when you need it, and it’s not there when you don’t,” said Sinclair. “We call it invisible computing. A lot of folks are focusing on MicroLEDs. It’s a good candidate for near-eye solutions. It can be used outdoors. Power is a consideration. And we drive the size of the pixels as low as possible.” Above: Mojo’s displays are really small.
MicroLEDs use 10% of the power of current LCD displays, and they have five to 10 times higher brightness than OLEDs. That means that MicroLEDs enable comfortable viewing outdoors.
Sinclair previously worked at companies like HP and Apple. He was a product manager for the iPhone division for six years. He declined to say exactly what the displays will be used for.
He said the technology breakthrough is critical to Mojo Vision’s development of augmented reality solutions that will fundamentally alter the future of computing and communications. The company is exploring new ways people can receive and share information that is immediate and relevant but doesn’t distract their attention from the world in front of them.
“Mojo’s high-density MicroLEDs represent a major advance in displays,” said Paul S. Martin, vice president of displays at Mojo Vision, in a statement. “Creating screens with smaller pixels will deliver a nearly invisible low-power display without the distraction of today’s mobile devices. This prototype demonstrates the capability MicroLEDs have to create more seamless AR experiences.” Here are Mojo Vision’s 14K PPI Display technical specifications: 0.48mm MicroLED display 1.8μm pixel pitch Sub-pixel pitch of over 14,000ppi Sub-pixel density of over 200Mppi2 More details will come later.
Mojo envisions the future of computing — invisible computing — which imagines a world where information is there when you need it, technology fades away, and you can freely connect with others in a more meaningful and confident way.
The company has 68 employees, and it has raised $108 million to date, with funding initially from investors including Khosla Ventures, New Enterprise Associates, Shanda Group, Fusion Fund, Liberty Global Ventures, 8VC, Dolby Family Ventures, AME Cloud Ventures, and Open Field Capital.
In its most recent round , new investors included Google’s Gradient Ventures, Advantech Capital, HP Tech Ventures, Motorola Solutions Venture Capital, Bold Capital Partners, LG Electronics, Kakao Ventures, and Stanford StartX.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
