Account overview Billing Profile Emails & marketing Data privacy Settings Help Comments & replies Sign out switch to the US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition current edition: The Guardian - Back to home News US news World news Environment US politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL F1 Golf Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money What term do you want to search? Search with google Support us Print subscriptions US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness The Lay Scientist Raising HAL How real is that Atlas robot video? Published: 7:06 AM How real is that Atlas robot video? Raising HAL Raising HAL: introducing our new AI and data blog Published: 6:34 AM Raising HAL: introducing our new AI and data blog Has a rampaging AI algorithm really killed thousands in Pakistan? A killer machine-learning algorithm guiding the U.S. drone program has killed thousands of innocent people according to some reports. What’s the truth? Published: 10:10 AM Has a rampaging AI algorithm really killed thousands in Pakistan? Is BB-8 a woman: why are we so determined to assign gender to AI? From droids in a galaxy far, far away to the computers in our back pockets, we make huge assumptions about the identities of our machine companions Published: 7:38 AM Is BB-8 a woman: why are we so determined to assign gender to AI? The evidence suggests I was completely wrong about tuition fees For years I believed that tuition fees promoted inequality. But not only could scrapping fees be a terrible idea, there’s also a far better place to put the money Published: 7:57 AM The evidence suggests I was completely wrong about tuition fees Artificial Intelligence: Gods, egos and Ex Machina Even with its flaws, last year’s Ex Machina perfectly captured the curious relationship between artificial intelligence, God and ego. A tiny change in its closing moments would have given it an intriguing new dimension.
Published: 6:49 AM Artificial Intelligence: Gods, egos and Ex Machina Why your bathroom scales are lying to you and how to find your true weight Martin Robbins.
I weighed myself every hour for the entire bank holiday weekend. Here’s what I found out.
Published: 8:05 AM Why your bathroom scales are lying to you and how to find your true weight For drivers, the A27 is far more dangerous than any air show The Shoreham plane crash has prompted calls for a review of airshow safety. But everyday safety on Britain’s A roads is an issue receiving little attention Published: 5:44 AM For drivers, the A27 is far more dangerous than any air show How can our future Mars colonies be free of sexism and racism? Martin Robbins: The white, male European conquerors of the New World and 19th-century American pioneers of Manifest Destiny and still colour the space age, so is it a myth that we’ll turn nice on Mars? Published: 7:31 AM How can our future Mars colonies be free of sexism and racism? The Royal Baby: a winner in Britain's infant mortality lottery Martin Robbins: The number of baby deaths in the UK is still shocking, especially for poorer families. In a few days’ time you can do something about it Published: 6:32 AM The Royal Baby: a winner in Britain's infant mortality lottery Porn data: visualising fetish space Martin Robbins: What are the most expensive kinks? Is porn keeping track with inflation, and is it possible to map ‘fetish-space’? Porn metadata could help find the answers to these and many other questions about human sexuality.
Published: 5:30 AM Porn data: visualising fetish space Only Farage can save our precious bodily fluids from HIV Martin Robbins Martin Robbins.
Nigel Farage is like a host who charges guests for using too much loo roll.
Published: 8:16 AM Published: 8:16 AM Only Farage can save our precious bodily fluids from HIV Why Oxford Dictionaries are right to purge nature from the dictionary Martin Robbins Attacking a dictionary for removing archaic words is like punching your thermometer when it’s too cold.
Published: 4:30 AM Published: 4:30 AM Why Oxford Dictionaries are right to purge nature from the dictionary Darwin's HMS Beagle may be coming to Lego Martin Robbins: A hundred and eighty years ago, Darwin visited the city of Santiago, Chile. Generations later, one of its residents has worked for months to recreate his voyage in Lego; and soon you might be able to build it too.
Published: 5:48 AM Darwin's HMS Beagle may be coming to Lego How much should science publishers charge for racism? Martin Robbins The paywalls of scientific publishers contain a wide range of extremely racist material from some of the darker eras of 20th century history. How should they be dealing with it? Published: 8:01 AM Published: 8:01 AM How much should science publishers charge for racism? Torture: Why did the CIA spend over $180m on bad science? Martin Robbins Martin Robbins: The CIA built up a multi-million dollar system of bad science that insulated them from the truth about torture. The psychologists involved should be banished from the scientific community Published: 4:10 AM Published: 4:10 AM Torture: Why did the CIA spend over $180m on bad science? Mind Change: Susan Greenfield has a big idea, but what is it? Martin Robbins: A poorly researched diatribe on the ‘youth of today’, Susan Greenfield’s exploration of Mind Change reads like a Littlejohn column wrapped in the trappings of science Published: 5:11 AM Mind Change: Susan Greenfield has a big idea, but what is it? Why we shouldn't sneer at Ashya King's parents Andrew Holding: It’s easy to dismiss the parents of Ashya King as scientific illiterates in need of a good education, but science engagement that assumes and mocks ignorance is offensive and rarely effective.
Published: 6:07 AM Why we shouldn't sneer at Ashya King's parents Does OKCupid need our consent? Martin Robbins: We need a better quality debate about the algorithms that rule our online lives Published: 4:30 AM Does OKCupid need our consent? Academics would love to be in the 'squeezed middle' Andrew Holding: £120,000 may put you in the Telegraph's 'squeezed middle', but work is barely economical for many people on median incomes Published: 7:27 AM Academics would love to be in the 'squeezed middle' About 182 results for The Lay Scientist 1 … next Topics Artificial intelligence (AI) Computing Controversies Consciousness Health US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top Close
