Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Adam Speight Gear The Best Budget Gaming Laptops Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Best Overall Gaming Laptop $970 at Amazon (RTX 3060) Best Battery Life $1,077 at Amazon Top-Notch Quality And Design $1,079 at Amazon If You Want a Big Display $1,000 at Amazon gaming laptops aren't what we'd call cheap.
 Still, they're often more cost-effective than building your own gaming PC , peripherals and all, with the added benefit of being much more travel-friendly. Yes, you can spend well more than $2,500 for a fully kitted-out laptop, but there's still strong value to be found at the lower end of the market (around $1,000). We've played all sorts of games on a range of budget gaming laptops and whittled the list down to the best.
We prioritized laptops with Nvidia's RTX graphics cards, at least an 11th-gen Intel or 5000-series AMD Ryzen chip, and 16 GB of RAM. These specs aim for a benchmark of around 60 frames per second (fps) at a 1080p pixel resolution in graphically rich titles, and upward of 120 fps in competitive games.
Check out our Best Gaming Laptops , Best Laptops , and Best Cheap Laptops guides for more computing recommendations. Our How to Choose a Laptop guide may also come in handy.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-Year Subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Acer Best Overall Gaming Laptop Acer Nitro 5 The Nitro 5 epitomizes everything you'd want in a budget gaming laptop. It looks a little simple, but the 144-Hz screen with its 1080p resolution is ideal for almost all kinds of gaming. Despite the relatively low price (for a gaming laptop), the keyboard is competitive with the best; there's plenty of key travel and satisfying clicks. The Nitro gets the most out of its specs, often slightly topping rivals with similar configurations—it comfortably hit 60 fps in low to medium settings in graphically demanding titles, and stretched further to 144 Hz in less visually intense games. It doesn't get too hot or loud either.
It's also just portable enough to take on trips, but this is still a nearly 5-pound machine. It's best for moving around the house. There's strong port selection, with an HDMI, a dedicated charging port, a Thunderbolt 4 USB-C, a headphone jack, an Ethernet, and three USB-A ports. There are very few flaws here—the trackpad could offer a little more feedback, but that’s it.
Specs to look for: Intel Core i5 or AMD Ryzen 7, 16 GB of RAM, 512-GB SSD, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 Ti or 3060 $970 at Amazon (RTX 3060) $799 at Walmart (RTX 3050 Ti) $800 at Best Buy (RTX 3050 Ti) Photograph: Dell Best Battery Life Dell G15 The G15 is easily the ugliest laptop here, and it's quite thick. But what makes it special is the efficiency of its AMD processor, which helps this machine get roughly eight to nine hours of battery life with typical productivity tasks and some gaming on the go. For the best performance, you’ll always want to stay plugged into a wall outlet, but being able to run off the battery for several hours is a big plus when you need to join the weekly game night but aren't near a power source. The downside is the included charger—it's massive and doesn't make this machine travel friendly.
The keyboard is nice, the 1080p 120-Hz screen performs well, and with our preferred specs (see below), you'll be able to hit 120 fps at medium graphics settings in most games. For titles that need more power, you can expect around 60 fps at high settings. This laptop is one of the more cumbersome on this list, but it distributes heat well and doesn't sound annoyingly loud. Where it can’t keep up with rivals is with its small trackpad and a build that scuffs up relatively easily.
Specs to look for: AMD Ryzen 7 5800H or 6800H, 16 or 32 GB of RAM, 512-GB or 1-TB SSD, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 Ti $1,077 at Amazon $1,100 at Best Buy $1,400 at Dell Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Asus Top-Notch Quality And Design Asus TUF Dash F15 Whether you opt for a cheaper RTX 3050 Ti or go up to an RTX 3070 graphics card, the Asus TUF Dash F15 makes the most of its components. It has one of the best gaming keyboards around on a laptop, period, with a joyful combo of nice key travel and tactile feedback. The display is crisp and detailed, especially when compared to rivals. It’s super thin, at under 20 mm, yet manages to offer a great number of ports, including a headphone jack, an HDMI, three USB-A ports, an Ethernet, and a Thunderbolt 4 USB-C. If the design of most budget gaming laptops makes you wince, the Dash F15 adds some class too.
It rarely gets too loud, but the top section of the keyboard can get a bit warm under heavy load. For a slight drop in performance but better battery life, consider the equivalent AMD version—the TUF Gaming A15.
Specs to look for: Intel Core i7, 16-GB RAM, 1-TB SSD, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 Ti $1,079 at Amazon Photograph: HP If You Want a Big Display HP Victus 16 Bigger displays are harder to find at a cheaper price, and, admittedly, a jump from a 15-inch to a 16-inch screen isn’t a huge difference. But the HP Victus 16 is a strong choice if you desperately want the bigger screen real estate. Like the TUF Dash F15, the Victus 16 offers more style than other budget machines, so it doesn't look gaudy. This laptop prioritizes keyboard feedback over travel, meaning the keys are shallow, but they offer a pleasing crunch.
The big display is the winner. It’s a 1080p panel with a 144-Hz refresh rate accented by thin bezels around the edges, and the 16 inches of space comes in handy more often than not, for gaming and productivity. When sporting our recommended specs (see below), you'll be able to hit 144 fps in Apex Legends at 1080p with low graphics settings, and visually demanding games like Borderlands 3 will get you around 60 fps at high settings.
Specs to look for: Intel Core i5 or i7, 8 or 16 GB of RAM, 512-GB SSD, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 Ti $1,000 at Amazon $850 at Target $1,200 at HP Writer and reviewer X Topics Shopping laptops PC Games video games portable gaming buying guides gaming tips Eric Ravenscraft Simon Hill Jaina Grey Jaina Grey Adrienne So Adrienne So Brenda Stolyar Julian Chokkattu WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
