Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Brian Barrett Gear Apple's Intel Breakup Will Reshape Macs—and Beyond Photograph: Apple Save this story Save Save this story Save As has been rumored and rumored and rumored and then rumored some more, Apple will no longer rely on Intel chips for its MacBook laptops. Instead, the company’s homegrown ARM-based processors—already a staple of the iPhone and iPad —will provide the brains for the future of Apple computing. The shift to so-called Apple Silicon is monumental not just for the performance gains of Apple’s laptop and desktop lines, but for the surprising convergence of all of its devices.
“When we make bold changes, it’s for one simple but powerful reason: so we can make much better products,” said Apple CEO Tim Cook during Monday’s pre-taped Worldwide Developers Conference keynote.
 The first ARM-based Mac will be available by the end of the year; the company expects the transition to take two years in all, and will continue to release some Intel-based products until then. How close the horizon lies, though, matters less than how Apple plans to get there. Breakups have a tendency to be messy, after all.
Apple and Intel’s relationship dates back to 2006, when the former transitioned away from PowerPC processors. The switchover was rocky for a year or two, as developers had to update their software to accommodate Intel’s x86 architecture. Think of it like translating a novel into a new language. That task awaits developers again, although it looks to be less onerous than previous switchovers.
“I think we're looking at an incredibly smooth transition,” says iOS and macOS developer Steven Troughton-Smith. Part of that is thanks to previous groundwork Apple has laid. Several years ago it dropped support for 32-bit apps that are incompatible with ARM’s 64-bit architecture. At last year’s WWDC it introduced Catalyst, which modifies iPad apps to run on the macOS without having to rewrite them from scratch. And a few months ago, Apple launched “Universal Purchase,” which allows customers to buy an app one time and have it appear across iOS, iPad OS, and macOS. Those features haven’t been especially popular yet, but their role crystalizes in a world where macOS and iOS run on the same platform.
On Monday, though, Apple outlined several failsafes to ensure as few bumps along that road as possible. It will ship Rosetta 2, an emulator that will let ARM-based Macs run Intel software from any lagging developers. It will allow for virtualization of Linux, although Apple has been mum as to whether Macs will continue to be able to load Windows through Boot Camp or virtualization software. Most intriguingly—and unexpectedly—iPhone and iPad apps will be able to run natively on a Mac.
“What we saw today suggests that Apple's new chips will be well capable of emulating the current Mac software library at near-native speeds and enough for heavy 3D gaming and pro software,” says Troughton-Smith. “iOS and iPadOS apps being available on the Mac day one means users will almost certainly have native apps available for every need.” Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft The rumblings around the transition to ARM have focused particularly on the architecture’s ability to handle professional-grade apps. Apple went some way to help alleviate those concerns Monday, showing off its own Final Cut Pro video-editing software running natively on Apple Silicon, as well as Shadow of the Tomb Raider and the extremely intensive Maya 3D modeling software running smoothly through Rosetta 2. “It translates the apps when you install them so they can launch immediately and be instantly responsive,” said Apple senior vice president of software engineering Craig Federighi during Monday’s keynote. “Rosetta 2 can also can also translate code on the fly when needed, like web browsing. It even handles the most complex pro apps and their plug-ins.” As with all demos though, it’s important to keep several grains of salt handy, especially for Apple’s most demanding customers.
“It’s going to be hard for me to imagine a smartphone-based microprocessor replacing a Mac Pro that you just bought for 10 grand,” says Patrick Moorhead, founder of Moor Insights & Strategy. “I wish they would have shown some performance comparisons.” The A-Series chips in Apple’s iPhone and iPads do hold their own agains their lower-power Intel comparables. But it remains to be seen how quickly Cupertino’s silicon team can level up the chips' capabilities even further. Based on the company’s transition timeline, the answer seems to be two years or less.
There’s also a question of at what point certain apps, in particular those that aren’t actively maintained, simply stop working on ARM-based Macs. Apple called out that major players like Microsoft and Adobe are already hard at work on the transition, but it seems plausible that certain utilities may get left behind altogether. “I think there will be a culling process like we saw from 32 to 64 bit applications,” says Moorhead. There’s also the question of your existing Mac, and at what point the transition will force you to upgrade. Apple has promised to continue supporting and releasing macOS for Intel-based Macs “for years to come,” with no hard date yet. It’s worth noting, too, that Microsoft and Google have both tried similar convergences across Windows and Chrome, with limited success.
Those potential hiccups seem well worth it for the benefits that Apple will reap. In fact, you don’t even need to look beyond Apple itself for proof that making your own components can provide major advantages.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Apple has used chip designs from ARM as the basis for its iPhone processors since 2010, when it shipped the A4 processor in the iPad and iPhone 4. Since then, the company has been able to develop its mobile hardware and software in concert, finding efficiencies and targeting specific performance gains in a way that competitors have since tried to emulate in increasing numbers. If you control your own silicon, you can also offer features that competitors can’t match, as Apple did with the iPad’s Retina display—powered by the A5x processor—in 2012. In 2017, Apple expanded its solo efforts to making its own GPU , better positioning itself for an augmented-reality future.
The Mac, meanwhile, has been an outlier. Because it relies on Intel’s processors, it can only differentiate features so much. It can’t optimize for power efficiency nearly as well. And it left Apple beholden to an Intel production timeline that has increasingly been beset with delays.
“Ultimately we know that bringing our SoCs to the Mac will allow us to build much better products,” said Apple’s senior vice president of hardware technologies Johny Srouji during Monday’s event. “A key advantage that we have is the tight integration of our silicon with our software.” These new chips—which will be manufactured by Apple supplier TSMC—will also represent a long-term cost savings to Apple, although how much of that it passes on to customers remains to be seen. (Maybe not worth holding your breath?) “Apple is a customer across several areas of business, and we will continue to support them,” said Intel in a statement. “Intel remains focused on delivering the most advanced PC experiences and a wide range of technology choices that redefine computing.” (For what it’s worth, Intel makes the bulk of its billions on data center technology and PC chips. Losing Macs won’t upend its apple cart.) A lot depends on the robustness of Rosetta 2, which remains unknown in practice. Still, the transition seems likely to be relatively seamless for consumers. Apple has every incentive to make this jump, but it’s also given developers every reason to make it with them. "It’s a big ask of developers to support a new chip,” says Maribel Lopez, founder of Lopez Research. “But when they think of it as laying the groundwork for working across multiple devices, it’s an easier sell.” Which is really what an ARM-based future means for you: A world in which you don’t buy iPhone apps or iPad apps or Mac apps, but just Apple apps that work on whatever device you own.
Passionflix and the Musk of Romance As health care moves online, patients are getting left behind Schools turn to surveillance tech to prevent Covid-19 spread Everything you need to know before buying a gaming PC Mark Zuckerberg believes only in Mark Zuckerberg 👁 Is the brain a useful model for AI ? Plus: Get the latest AI news 💻 Upgrade your work game with our Gear team’s favorite laptops , keyboards , typing alternatives , and noise-canceling headphones Executive Editor, News X Topics apple WWDC chips Mac Intel Brenda Stolyar Brenda Stolyar Julian Chokkattu Boone Ashworth Brenda Stolyar Reece Rogers Simon Hill Jaina Grey WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
