Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Joe Flaherty Design Quartermasters: Inside the World's Last Pinball Design Shop The X-Men franchise is the latest pop-culture property to get the Stern Pinball treatment.
Save this story Save Save this story Save While The Who's "Pinball Wizard" still stands up after four decades of radio play, the designers of the pinball machines that made Tommy so good have become an endangered species.
Only one company in the world, Illinois' Stern Pinball , still designs and produces these electro-mechanical marvels, the lone holdout since industry behemoth Williams Electronics shuttered its pinball division in 1999. It may be a dying art, but the creative minds at Stern are nonetheless continuously creating new machines that can keep their industry moving forward and give them one more replay.
The backbone of their game design process for the past few decades has been licensing; Guns and Roses machines rocked the '80s, The Simpsons mocked low scores in the '90s, and the Transformers reflect the high-tech machines of today. Each new pinball machine starts with a bit of creative brainstorming, where the designers translate the theme of a movie, band, or other pop-culture property into a game.
However, these themes aren't just skins, they're key drivers of the game's design. The designers draw inspiration from their licenses and create homages to them in the form of mechanical contraptions. Spinning disks on the playfield fit into the Tron mythos and the giant magnetic bell in the AC/DC cabinet is a perfect example of how tech and art bounce off each other to create a compelling experience.
Stern still produces three or four new games per year, usually with a team of five (lead designer, mechanical engineer, software engineer, graphic artist, and an animator) working together for 9-15 months.
The design process is iterative and bounces back and forth between physical and virtual modeling. Stern marketing director Jody Dankberg says, "The new innovations in CAD and 3D modeling allow us to move more quickly through the prototype phase of our product development process. We can see how parts fit together and how things will look in real life. But in an electro-mechanical device, there still is no substitute for building a physical model." The well-appointed workshop at Stern HQ allows designers to quickly fabricate prototype games, called "white woods," to work out the major game mechanics. Simultaneously, software engineers start working out rule sets, point systems, and visual effects to complete the experience.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker High detail view of a pinball playfield.
Chock-a-block with bumpers, buzzers, big figures, and blinking lights.
Pinball is inherently physical, but the designers are starting to tilt into the world of video games. In Stern's homage to the Transformers franchise, players can choose to play as AutoBots or Decepticons, each mode having different targets, bonuses, and achievements. In the X-Men game , players unlock story elements by making special shots and enjoy different gameplay flows depending on the way they play.
The games have become so deep that Dankberg says "We have been using QR codes to lead players to instructional videos." Stern produces pro, special edition, and limited edition versions of each game. Each is differentiated by how many bells and whistles, literally in this case, are on the board. They sell a few thousand units of each game with prices starting at $4,599.
The games are assembled in Stern's cavernous Chicago warehouse, which affords the designers an ability to see how their baroque designs translate into finished goods. The close proximity of design and manufacturing allow the creators to push the state of the art while ensuring their vision is manufacturable.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker The technology behind pinball has changed dramatically, but the audience is largely the same. Most games are sold to bars, arcades, and other public places. However, there are some hard-core collectors who buy the machines, clearly vying for "coolest house on the block" status. Dankberg protects the sanctity of their limited edition machines, explaining "We never re-run LE models. LE games are all numbered and signed like many other collectibles." Cad schematics for modern pinball games rival computers for complexity.
While fun on the surface, there is a nest of electromechanical elements in each game.
Pinball machines rarely win design awards and they've seen better days commercially. At their peak, 80% of coin operated machine revenue came from pinball machines. Today, they're mostly seen in high school productions of Tommy or hipster bars. Fortunately, for the truly obsessed, Stern Pinball is keeping the last ball in play.
Photos courtesy Stern Pinball X Topics Tron X-Men video games design Megan Farokhmanesh Jaina Grey Steven Levy Gabrielle Niola Aarian Marshall Lily Hay Newman Megan Farokhmanesh Andy Greenberg Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
