Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Tony Long May 11, 1997: Machine Bests Man in Tournament-Level Chess Match Save this story Save Save this story Save 1997: Deep Blue becomes the first computer to defeat a chess champion in match play.
A year earlier, Garry Kasparov rallied from a first-game loss to beat Deep Blue in the first high-level chess tournament ever staged between man and computer. Following the defeat, Deep Blue was reprogrammed by its IBM minders, and the two squared off again on the 35th floor of a Manhattan skyscraper.
The additional computing power tipped the scales in favor of Deep Blue, although Kasparov was more than game. He won the first game, lost the second and then battled Deep Blue to three successive draws, extending the computer to the sixth and deciding game, despite rules that allowed programmers to tinker with Deep Blue between games to keep adapting to Kasparov’s playing style.
Deep Blue, reprogrammed using the input of several grandmasters and a detailed analysis of Kasparov’s previous games, was tailored specifically to defeat the Russian champion. The 1997 version of Deep Blue was capable of making any one of 200 million moves per second, although Kasparov said afterward that he caught the computer making a humanlike mistake in move 44 of the second game.
Playing black in the decisive game, Kasparov made the puzzling choice of a cautious strategy. The commentators for the match were surprised by that very un-Kasparov-like choice, suggesting that he might be playing for another draw.
If he was, it didn’t work. Kasparov blundered early, leaving his king trapped on a single square and forcing him onto the defensive. He never regained the initiative.
Kasparov resigned after only 18 moves.
The dethroned champ demanded a rematch, but IBM -- having reaped the desired publicity -- declined, and Deep Blue was retired.
Source: Various Photo: Garry Kasparov plays Deep Blue. (Louie Psihoyos/Corbis) This article first appeared on Wired.com May 11, 2007.
See Also:- Clive Thompson on the Cyborg Advantage A Decade After Kasparov's Defeat, Deep Blue Coder Relives Victory Competitive Chess Boxing: Brain Meets Pain in Iceland Get Your Kids Playing Chess Quickly With These Great Training Books Complete Wired.com coverage of chess January 1997: CES Happens in Vegas, Stays in Vegas Jan. 12, 1997: HAL of a Computer Jan. 22, 1997: Heads Up, Lottie! It's Space Junk! Feb. 22, 1997: Hello, Dolly! June 12, 1997: Trying to Stay One Jump Ahead of the Counterfeiters June 25, 1997: Minor Collision Doesn't Dull Cargo Ship's Luster July 10, 1997: Neanderthal DNA Suggests a Separate, Unequal Being Aug. 6, 1997: Apple Rescued — by Microsoft Sept. 16, 1997: Jobs Returns to Apple Dec. 11, 1997: World Signs Onto Kyoto Protocol Dec. 18, 1997: Tokyo Bay Tunnel Opens May 11, 868: Signed, Sealed, Delivered May 11, 1951: RAM Is Born Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Topics 20th century Chess Computers and IT IBM New York City Russia video games This Day in Tech Ben Brubaker Will Knight Will Knight Andy Greenberg Gregory Barber Andy Greenberg Simon Hill Steven Levy Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
