Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Michael Calore Gear Google I/O 2017: Watch Live Video of Google's Big Show Right Here Save this story Save Save this story Save Every year, thousands of Google developers gather at Shoreline Amphitheater in Mountain View, California for Google I/O, the company's biggest developer show of the year. Google executives take the stage to show the latest tools, features, and updates coming to all of the company's products.
The keynote address starts at 10 am Pacific (1 pm Eastern) on Wednesday, May 17. The video player at the top of this page will start showing the live feed about an hour before the keynote address begins. We'll also be running a liveblog filled with commentary and analysis---join in.
What should you expect? Lots of talk about Android, for sure. Google will most likely show enhancements to its mobile operating system, the most-used piece of software in the world that powers close to two billion devices. We'll also hear about Google's cloud services, from the corporate end all the way down to the consumer stuff like Gmail. There's no hotter topic in Silicon Valley than AI, and Google has always been at the forefront of AI research and development. We should definitely expect the company to tell us about how it's pushing machine learning, voice recognition, and computer vision. Speaking of computer vision, the other hot topic in tech is "mixed reality" (or augmented reality), where real-world images are overlayed with computer imagery. Facebook, Microsoft, and Snapchat are all leading the charge here, so we can expect Google to show some moves as well. Just join us in hoping they don't bring Google Glass back from the dead.
See the full Google I/O 2017 schedule at the company's website for the event. And join our liveblog for even more insight! Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Senior Editor X Instagram Topics Google io Jaina Grey Simon Hill Simon Hill Brendan Nystedt Simon Hill Scott Gilbertson Scott Gilbertson Medea Giordano WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
