Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Liz Stinson Gear Google Just Made Email a Heckuva Lot Easier to Deal With Google Save this story Save Save this story Save A couple years ago, Google came up with an idea for eliminating the pesky task of writing emails. Instead of asking people to type sentences into a blank box like they’ve always done, the company started providing automatic replies that could be sent with a tap of a button.
The feature, called Smart Reply , relied on Google’s machine learning brains to generate quippy responses based on the content of the received email. A note from a friend suggesting a dinner plan might be met with a “Sounds great!” or “Looking forward to it!” Meanwhile, a question from a colleague about an upcoming work call might surface suggestions like “I’ll call you in a few” or “Are you available now?” Google's AI-assisted Smart Reply feature will soon be available to all Gmail users on mobile.
When it launched in the fall of 2015 in the company's Inbox email app, Smart Reply was met with mixed reactions. Some found it convenient, others thought it was creepy. Plenty considered the machine’s terse responses to be a little perplexing. Google was OK with that and was content to keep it an experiment.
But now, Google is betting the feature is ready for a wider audience. Today at I/O , the company announced that Smart Reply will soon be available to all Gmail users on Android and iOS, making the canned responses a default option for responding to email on your phone.
With Smart Reply, Google is assuming users want to offload the burdensome task of communicating with one another to our more efficient counterparts. It's not wrong. The company says the machine-generated replies already account for 12 percent of emails sent; expect that number to boom once everyone with the Gmail app can send one-tap responses. In the short term, that might mean more stilted conversations in your inbox. In the long term, the growing number of people who use these canned responses is only going to benefit Google, whose AI grows smarter with every email sent.
Google’s neural networks are already astoundingly capable of analyzing the context, word count, and sentence structure of an email. The technology can distinguish between simple categorical things like a note sent by a bot versus one sent by a dear friend. It handles yes/no questions with the ease of a human. But increasingly, Google’s neural networks are getting better at the more nuanced side of language, too, determining if you’re the type of person who regularly uses “thanks” or “thanks!” or if the context of a message is positive or negative.
These emotional subtleties are easy for a human to interpret, but it’s more complicated for a machine, as Google research scientist Brian Strope and engineering director Ray Kurzweil note in a blog post.
 A sentence like “That interesting person at the cafe we like gave me a glance” is filled with linguistic landmines. For example, was the glance menacing? Or was it positive? With practice---that is, processing millions of emails daily---the networks can eventually read these nuanced clues. “Given enough examples of language, a machine learning approach can discover many of these subtle distinctions,” they write.
For now, some of Google's suggestions still read as a little off. But it's easy to imagine that, eventually, the majority of Google smart replies will be smart enough to actually pass for human. Is that a good thing? For those looking to spend their energy elsewhere, tapping a button once is always better than typing a key 15 times. Still, it's hard not to feel an uneasiness about relinquishing the one capability---language---where humans have a leg up on machines. In the end, maybe the mistakes and quirks that come with predictive language aren't such a bad thing. They remind us that, while computers are way more efficient, they're ultimately less human.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft X Topics Gmail Google Reece Rogers Scott Gilbertson Virginia Heffernan Scott Gilbertson Boone Ashworth Carlton Reid Matt Jancer Boone Ashworth WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
