Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Boone Ashworth Michael Calore Gear Everything Apple Announced Today, From Watches to Home Workouts Save this story Save Save this story Save Undeterred by the absolute maelstrom of apocalyptic disasters raging across the world , Apple held its annual September product event today. It was a pre-recorded virtual extravaganza, available to be streamed by anyone looking for something shiny to break up their doomscrolling.
Indeed, there were some lovely new gadgets shown off. But also, and more importantly, there were plenty of new options for Apple subscription services.
Photograph: Apple Two new Apple Watch models debuted on Tuesday. (The announcement of new Watch hardware was a given, considering Apple titled the event “Time Flies.”) Watch Series 6 is the premium model, priced at $399 , which features a new sensor that can take a reading of blood oxygen levels in 15 seconds. There’s also a lower-priced model called Apple Watch SE that sells for $279, minus the new blood oxygen sensor. Both are available on Friday. Watch Series 3 is still on sale for the lower price of $199.
Other new features include a way to sync with your kids’ Apple Watches—even if they don’t have their own phone—so you can track their location and moderate the content they’re consuming. In addition to the new models, there are new bands. Fans of a claspless design can snap a Solo Loop into their Watch. These are stretchable loops, available in either solid or braided material, with no buckle. The band comes in different sizes, so you can find the best fit for your own wrist.
Photograph: Apple Apple also announced a subscription service for streamed workouts that seems aimed squarely at taking on Peloton and other companies capitalizing on the home fitness trend.
The new Fitness+ service offers video streams of workouts in an array of categories like yoga, cycling, strength training, high-intensity interval training, and dance. You can follow along with videos on an iPhone or TV. Data gleaned from an Apple Watch will display on screen in real time so customers can track calories burned and other metrics. All that data then syncs to Apple’s existing fitness app for later tracking. If paired with a Watch, on-screen instructions will also show up on your wrist. So, if a trainer reminds you to check heart rate, those numbers will get larger on the Watch so they’re easier to spot at a glance.
Apple says classes will feature Apple’s own workout instructors, and new sessions will be added every week. Fitness+ will be available later this year. It costs $10 per month, or $80 per year if you pay upfront.
But why subscribe to just one Apple service when you can subscribe to all of them? Apple is embracing the bundle by making the bulk of its subscription services available for a single price. The bundle, called Apple One , will include Apple Music, Apple TV+, Apple Arcade, and iCloud storage.
Prices start at $15 a month, which includes 50-gigabytes of iCloud storage. A Family plan lets you share all of those basic services and ups iCloud storage to 200 GB, all for $20. The Premier level adds the new Fitness+ service and Apple News+ and gives you 2 terabytes of storage for $30. Apple says these bundles will be available this fall.
Photograph: Apple On the cheap end, Apple has a new base-model iPad. Not much has changed on this eighth-generation iPad.
 It’s the same tablet you’ve come to expect, just with a performance bump. It’s available Friday for the same standard iPad price: $329, or $299 for customers in the education market.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Apple has reserved its most exciting design changes for the new iPad Air.
 The company has squeezed a larger 10.9-inch display into the same footprint, giving the new Air a more dense 2,360 x 1,640-pixel resolution. Touch ID is now integrated into the top sleep/wake button, which has a sapphire crystal on the top so it can see your fingerprint. The device charges with USB-C—a welcome change, since you can now use the same cable to charge your MacBook and your iPad Aid. Even more important is the new chip inside, Apple’s own A14 Bionic. It’s a six-core design that’s more energy efficient and gives a boost in performance. It’s also the first chip to be built on a 5-nanometer process that is set to become the new standard in the computer industry over the next year. The new iPad Air starts at $599 and goes on sale next month.
When you wake up Wednesday morning, you’ll see some notification badges on your Apple devices. The big update is iOS 14, which will be rolling out to iPhones tomorrow. You can read about all the new features coming to the iPhone in our breakdown of iOS 14. The iPad, Apple Watch, and Apple TV will also get software updates on Wednesday.
We were expecting some personal audio gadgets, like a new set of over-ear headphones and possibly a new HomePod speaker. But they didn’t make their way into today’s event, which was unusually short at just over an hour. However, Apple will most likely be holding another hardware announcement even in October, which is when we expect to see the next iPhone revealed. Any additional products, especially ones that sync to the iPhone, could debut then. So stay tuned.
Updated on September 16: We corrected Apple One iCloud storage options. The base plan nets you 50 GB not 200 GB. You get 200-gigabytes on the Family plan. We regret the error.
If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
📩 Want the latest on tech, science, and more? Sign up for our newsletters ! The oysters that knew what time it was Tips to fix the most annoying Bluetooth headphone problems My week of radical transparency at a Chinese business seminar Could a tree help find a decaying corpse nearby ? How to protect the data on your laptop 🎧 Things not sounding right? Check out our favorite wireless headphones , soundbars , and Bluetooth speakers Staff Writer X Senior Editor X Instagram Topics apple Apple Watch iPad Brenda Stolyar Eric Ravenscraft Adrienne So Julian Chokkattu Jaina Grey Jaina Grey Simon Hill Adrienne So WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
