Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Matt Simon Science Your Apples May Soon Be Picked By Laser-Shooting Robots Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save A bowl of salad is a beautiful collection of human ingenuity. The lettuce requires its own specialized agricultural process, as do the tomatoes, as do the garbanzo beans. Then comes the simple act of pulling these ingredients out of the ground, a challenge our dextrous human hands complete with ease. As for robots? Not so much.
This is why roboticists are creating crop-specific machines to harvest fruits and veggies. There’s the robot that harvests lettuce with a knife made of water.
 Now comes the apple-picking robot, a metallic farmer that just graduated from R&D and won a job in a New Zealand orchard. Its deployment may be limited at the moment, sure, but it’s a glimpse at a future in which hyper-specialized robots help feed our growing species.
The robot (it’s thus far nameless, in case you were wondering), developed by a company called Abundant Robotics, navigates the rows between apple trees using lidar, which paints the world with lasers , and images the fruits with machine vision.
“In real time it’s recognizing apples,” says Dan Steere, CEO of Abundant. “If they're ripe, then the computer system sequences them for the robotic arm to pick.” Or maybe not so much pick as slurp —the arm uses a vacuum tube to suck the delicate fruit off the plant. The apple then hits a conveyor, which ferries it into a bin. The robot can do this 24 hours a day, scooting up and down the rows of the orchard, skipping not-quite-ripe fruits to return to later, as a human picker would.
Abundant Robotics' apple picker works on specially adapted apple trees that grow low and flat, almost like grape vines.
Abundant Robotics Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker There are many logical and technical reasons why an apple-picking robot hasn’t existed until now. When it comes to the evolution of agricultural automation, it’s been more machete than shears. Some of the machines in widespread use are the combine, which harvests the whole wheat plant, and cotton pickers, which sweep across acreage, stripping the plants of their fluffy fruit. Apple trees, on the other hand, are, well, trees, and they can’t just be steamrolled for harvest. “You can't damage the trees, and you can't damage the fruit,” says Steere. “And so that’s just more difficult to do than something like a combine for wheat, where you mow the crop down and pull it through a machine.” What has now made automation possible for apples comes down largely to the sensing—this robot not only pinpoints the fruits but determines their ripeness too. Operators can adapt it for a particular variety of apple by consulting with the farmer, who knows from experience what color equals ripe. Abundant Robotics can then tweak the vision system accordingly.
Which might make you think the end is nigh for human farmers. But as with most cries about job-stealing robots, it’s worth remembering that automation is nothing new, especially in agriculture. Wheat once required an army of workers to scythe through a field, until combine harvesters (originally drawn by animals) came along in the 19th century. So it seems natural that apples and other delicate crops would see their automation days.
“Picking fruit is heavy work,” says Peter Landon-Lane, COO of T&G Global, the grower that has deployed the apple robot. “To pick a hectare of apples involves pickers collectively doing something like 5 vertical miles going up and down ladders. With mechanization and robotics, it allows us to take out a lot of the heavy work.” Less heavy work for humans means they can either supervise the robot as it navigates the orchard or pick out the apples the machine misses. That automation will be essential as the agriculture industry continues to struggle with a deficit of human labor: In the US between 2002 and 2014, the number of full-time field workers dropped by 20 percent.
 Feeding a hungry human species on the same amount of land (or even less, really, given rising seas) means relying on machines to automate agriculture, as we have done in agricultural revolutions past.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Abundant Robotics The interesting bit this time around is that we now have more power to customize the crop to the machine. You see, these apple trees in New Zealand aren’t like anything that grows in your backyard. While apple trees are naturally bushy, these are shortened and flattened, so they look more like rows of grape vines. So what is naturally a 3D bulb of leaves and apples and stems, is now in effect 2D. As the robot rolls up and down the rows, it’s reading book after book, picking out certain words (apples) while leaving behind others (leaves and branches). Being squatter has other advantages too: It allows human pickers to more easily access the fruits, while being flat ensures that more of the fruits and leaves get sunlight. Interestingly, this kind of crop adaptation is the same principle behind the lettuce-harvesting robot. Farmers plant special lettuce that grows more like a bulb than a sphere, which allows the water knife to more neatly slice the plant at its base. So as much as we need to tailor robots to specific crops, we have to also tailor the crops to the robots.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker All these variables make it difficult to invent an all-purpose agriculture robot. And that doesn’t even account for produce grown indoors in highly structured operations. A startup called Iron Ox, for example, is developing a roboticized facility for crops like herbs.
 Each plant grows in its own little pod, which is arranged in hydroponic trays. As the plants grow they need ever more room, so periodically a robotic arm picks them up and transports them to trays where plants are more widely spaced.
So we’re seeing indoor and outdoor robotic systems developing to handle crops that do best in a given environment. You can’t grow apples hydroponically for a number of reasons—apple trees have lots of roots, for one—but Iron Ox’s system can nurture a range of crops suitable for the great indoors, from herbs to leafy greens. Plus, their robotic arm isn’t just a vacuum adapted to pick apples—it’s got extra flexibility. “The reason we went with the arm is because with a software update we can add new levels of automation,” says Brandon Alexander, CEO of Iron Ox. With the apple-picking robot, it’s all suction all the time.
Farmers might use other agricultural robot arms to autonomously trim plants or to identify pests or diseases on the leaves. A lot of that iterating will come from tweaks to the software.
So yes, to a degree, agricultural robots will be adaptable. But there will certainly be no single agricultural robot to rule them all—crops are just too diverse. Plus, specialization will give the machines powers that no human farmer can wield. We’re talking super speed and super sensing and lots of other super things, all in the pursuit of ensuring a robust system of food production on a changing planet.
Freitag's latest bags have a funky new ingredient When Facebook goes down, don't blame hackers Can machines tell when patients are about to die ? How Google influences the conversation in Washington A genetic mutation to hint why birth control can fail 👀 Looking for the latest gadgets? Check out our latest buying guides and best deals all year round 📩 Get even more of our inside scoops with our weekly Backchannel newsletter Staff Writer X Topics robotics agriculture Celia Ford Matt Simon Matt Simon Matt Reynolds Matt Simon Brent M. Foster Emily Mullin Rob Reddick Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
