Indaba Code of Conduct Programme Keynote Speakers All Speakers Poster Sessions Practical Sessions Hackathon Track Evening Events Women at Indaba Evening FAQ Accommodation Staying at Nyayo Travel Info Indaba map Transportation Sponsorship IndabaX Awards Kambule Doctoral Award Kambule Masters Award Maathai Impact Award Nominate Blog About Our Mission The Indaba Abantu Resources Reports Community Code of Conduct Videos and Slides Press and News Contact Us Past Editions 2017 2018 2020 2021 Indaba Code of Conduct Programme Keynote Speakers All Speakers Poster Sessions Practical Sessions Hackathon Track Evening Events Women at Indaba Evening FAQ Accommodation Staying at Nyayo Travel Info Indaba map Transportation Sponsorship IndabaX Awards Kambule Doctoral Award Kambule Masters Award Maathai Impact Award Nominate Blog About Our Mission The Indaba Abantu Resources Reports Community Code of Conduct Videos and Slides Press and News Contact Us Past Editions 2017 2018 2020 2021 Important Announcements August 2019: Daily lunch and dinner, together with two coffee breaks, are included for all Deep Learning Indaba attendees. Breakfast is only included for those attendees staying onsite (click here to book).
Accommodation: Click here to book onsite accommodation in Nyayo Hostel at Kenyatta University! Posters: Add a title for your poster in your Baobab account.
Important Announcements June 2019: You can see the growing list of speakers.
​ Important Announcements May 2019: Acceptance notifications will go out over the next few days – thank you for your patience! Kenyatta University, Nairobi, Kenya The mission of the Deep Learning Indaba is to Strengthen African Machine Learning.
The Deep Learning Indaba is the annual meeting of the African machine learning community.
In 2019, the Indaba aims to see 700 members of Africa’s artificial intelligence community for a week-long event of teaching, research, exchange, and debate around the state of the art in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
We are still actively looking for sponsors to support our work We are proud to see the 2019 Indaba hosted at Kenyatta University, one of the leading universities in Kenya and is home to some of the world’s top scholars, researchers and experts in diverse fields. The institution provides high quality programmes, has invested heavily in infrastructure and world class facilities and offers a nurturing environment in which students learn and grow.
Indaba 2019 Sponsors NILE TIER CONGO TIER CONGO TIER LIMPOPO TIER TANA TIER OTHER SPONSORS Contact us Deep Learning Indaba Strengthening African Machine Learning info@deeplearningindaba.com Indaba 2021 IndabaX Awards Mentorship Blog About Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
