Site Navigation The Atlantic Popular Latest Newsletters Sections Politics Ideas Fiction Technology Science Photo Business Culture Planet Global Books Podcasts Health Education Projects Features Family Events Washington Week Progress Newsletters Explore The Atlantic Archive Play The Atlantic crossword The Print Edition Latest Issue Past Issues Give a Gift Search The Atlantic Quick Links Dear Therapist Crossword Puzzle Magazine Archive Your Subscription Popular Latest Newsletters Sign In Subscribe A gift that gets them talking.
Give a year of stories to spark conversation, Plus a free tote.
Artificial Intelligence The dawn of a new machine age.
Haiyun Jiang / The New York Times / Redux The Sudden Fall of Sam Altman What it means that the world’s most powerful AI executive is out of a job Matteo Giuseppe Pani; Source: Getty The AI Debate Is Happening in a Cocoon The risks posed by new technologies are not science fiction. They are real.
Illustration by Ben Kothe / The Atlantic. Source: Getty My North Star for the Future of AI The most powerful companies in the world are shaping what artificial intelligence will become—but they’ll never get it right without the ethos and values of university scientists.
Illustration by The Atlantic AI Search Is Turning Into the Problem Everyone Worried About Google, are you sure no country in Africa starts with a K ? Illustration by Ben Kothe / The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
The Tech That’s Radically Reimagining the Public Sphere In her new book about facial recognition, Kashmir Hill shows how our expectations of privacy have been rewritten over the past few years.
Illustration by Paul Spella / The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
A Tool to Supercharge Your Imagination New technologies for making pictures can be prosthetics for your mind.
Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: pabradyphoto / Getty.
The White House Is Preparing for an AI-Dominated Future President Biden’s big swing on AI is as impressive and confusing as the technology itself.
Illustration by Tyler Comrie The Future of AI Is GOMA Four companies are taking over everything.
Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Bing Image Creator. Prompt: “a close-up of a man looking directly at the camera at sunset” AI Has a Hotness Problem In the world of generated imagery, you’re either drop-dead gorgeous or a wrinkled, bug-eyed freak.
Photo-illustration by Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic. Source: Millennium Images / Gallery Stock.
AI Is About to Photoshop Your Memories The smartphone camera roll is a digital diary. What happens when the images inside are more perfect than real? Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
We Don’t Actually Know If AI Is Taking Over Everything A test of AI transparency gave every major company an F.
Jordan Speer for The Atlantic Computers Are Learning to Smell AI could revolutionize our understanding of one of the most mysterious human senses.
Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
The New AI Panic Washington and Beijing have been locked in a conflict over AI development. Now a new battle line is being drawn.
Jared Bartman / The Atlantic. Sources: Getty; Rawpixel.
A Robot’s Nightmare Is a Burrito Full of Guac Chipotle’s new machine can make a burrito bowl—and not much else.
Illustration by Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
AI’s Present Matters More Than Its Imagined Future Let’s not spend too much time daydreaming.
Illustration by Jared Bartman / The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
Artists Are Losing the War Against AI OpenAI has introduced a tool for artists to keep their images from training future AI programs. It may not make a difference.
Illustration by Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic My Books Were Used to Train Meta’s Generative AI. Good.
It can have my next one too.
Illustration by Paul Spella / The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
A New Coca-Cola Flavor at the End of the World Y3000, the latest Coke flavor, was purportedly made with the assistance of AI. What does it taste like? Illustration by Ben Kothe / The Atlantic So Much for ‘Learn to Code’ In the age of AI, computer science is no longer the safe major.
Video by The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
What I Found in a Database Meta Uses to Train Generative AI Nobel-winning authors, Dungeons and Dragons , Christian literature, and erotica all serve as datapoints for the machine.
Illustration by Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
These 183,000 Books Are Fueling the Biggest Fight in Publishing and Tech Use our new search tool to see which authors have been used to train the machines.
Illustration by Jared Bartman / The Atlantic. Source: Unsplash.
Why Go With an Evil-Looking Orb? The controversial crypto project Worldcoin asks people to look into a shiny orb to have their irises scanned. It’s a bit on the nose.
Illustration by Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic Robots Are Already Killing People The AI boom only underscores a problem that has existed for years.
H. Armstrong Roberts / ClassicStock / Getty High-School English Needed a Makeover Before ChatGPT I used to make my students write essay after essay. There was always a better way.
Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
It’s a Weird Time for Driverless Cars The robotaxis now hitting American streets are troubling and amazing all at once.
Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
The Internet’s Next Great Power Suck AI’s carbon emissions are about to be a problem.
Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
Revealed: The Authors Whose Pirated Books Are Powering Generative AI Stephen King, Zadie Smith, and Michael Pollan are among thousands of writers whose copyrighted works are being used to train large language models.
Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic Before a Bot Steals Your Job, It Will Steal Your Name The future of AI looks a lot like Tessa, Ernie, and Amy.
Illustration by Ben Kothe / The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
Can an AI Save a Life? Michael spent years fighting isolation, depression, and despair. Then he met Sam. Then Sam changed.
Illustration by Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic The AI Crackdown Is Coming Five ways for Washington to hold Silicon Valley accountable Illustration by Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic Here Comes the Second Year of AI College Universities still aren’t sure whether to embrace the technology or ban it.
Illustration by Paul Spella / The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
Tech Companies’ Friendly New Strategy to Destroy One Another Meta has decided that it’s time to open up the internet’s walled gardens. Be wary.
Illustration by Joanne Imperio / The Atlantic America Already Has an AI Underclass Search engines, ChatGPT, and other AI tools wouldn’t function without an army of contractors. Now those workers say they’re underpaid and mistreated.
Illustration by Ricardo Rey Does Sam Altman Know What He’s Creating? The OpenAI CEO’s ambitious, ingenious, terrifying quest to create a new form of intelligence Photograph by Ian Allen for The Atlantic The Real Lesson From The Making of the Atomic Bomb A generation of AI researchers treat Richard Rhodes’s seminal book like a Bible as they develop technology with the potential to remake—or ruin—our world.
The Atlantic A Voicebot Just Left Me Speechless Generative AI has solved a problem that has plagued my voice assistants for years.
Ben Kothe / The Atlantic Learn a Foreign Language Before It’s Too Late AI translators may seem wondrous but they also erode a major part of what it is to be human.
Illustration by The Atlantic Google’s New Search Tool Could Eat the Internet Alive Will searchbots put me out of a job? Ben Kothe / The Atlantic. Source: Getty.
Wimbledon’s AI Announcer Was Inevitable Sports commentary has long been trending toward vanilla broadcasters. Why not have bots finish the job?
