Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Jaina Grey Louryn Strampe Gear The Best Sex Toys for Every Body Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Which Toys Are for My Body? Read more Best Vibrator for Any Body $35 at Dame Another Great External Vibrator $49 at Sephora Best Suction Toy for Most People $60 at Amazon Sex tech has come a long way in the past 10 years—not only in terms of cultural acceptance and awareness but also technology. Gone are the days of clunky, pink plastic rabbit vibrators and sex toys that feel like knockoff action figures. Today's toys are designed by sex educators, medical professionals, and some of the world’s greatest sexperts. They feature ultra-premium, medical-grade silicone, robust Bluetooth connectivity, programmable vibration patterns, and multiple motors all designed to help you have a good time.
There’s never a bad time to invest in a little extra self-care. These are some of our favorite sex toys, vibrators, smart vibrators, personal wand massagers, and accessories, all of which we’ve personally tested. There’s something here for everyone, every gender, and every body. The language on these products isn’t always gender-inclusive, but we approached testing with a gender-inclusive mindset, testing these with a variety of different genitals, bodies, and partners.
Be sure to check out our other bedroom-related guides, including the Best Vibrators , Best Lubes , Best Mattresses , and Best Sound Machines.
Updated November 2023: We added Bob the Alien Vibrator, Laya III Vibrator, Motorbunny Buck sex machine, Tenuto Mini vibrating ring, and Dame Dip vibrator.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get WIRED for just $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.
com , full Gear coverage, and subscriber-only newsletters. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: MyroslavaPavlyk/Getty Images Which Toys Are for My Body? Beyond P & V The sex tech industry has conditioned us to think of toys in terms of male and female, penis and vagina, but that’s reductive, inaccurate, and contributes to a larger narrative about the relationship between genitals and gender. It’s unhelpful and I have a lot of feelings about it.
 We opt to be as specific as possible and use anatomical terms to describe individual erogenous zones—and there are way more than just P and V.
The vulva is the exterior part of the vagina.
 It includes the labia majora , labia minora , the urethra, and the clitoris.
 The clitoris is the center of erogenous nerves in the vulva, and it’s much larger than just the exterior portion. Its internal structures extend down to either side of the vagina, which is where you’ll find the G-spot —the area stimulated by toys that curve toward the front of your body.
The phallus is what’s commonly referred to as the shaft of the penis , and it includes a couple of different erogenous zones. The glans is the top of the phallus, usually referred to as the “head,” and the frenulum is a thin strip of connective tissue on the underside of the glans that can be particularly sensitive to targeted stimulation. Last but not least, the anus is, well … it's the butthole. The rectum is the interior portion that attaches to the anus. Both of these areas can be sensitive to internal and external stimulation.
For people assigned male at birth, there’s an additional erogenous zone here: the prostate or P-spot.
 This is a walnut-sized gland that lives between the internal structures of the penis and the rectum, and it can be reached by toys that curve toward the front of your body.
Photograph: Dame Best Vibrator for Any Body Dame Dip You know the saying “You eat with your eyes first?” I think that's especially applicable to sex toys. The look and vibe of a sex toy has to be important to me; if it's not something pleasing to look at, I'm not going to want to spend time with it. Dame's Dip vibrator is, like other toys from the company, nice to look at. It has lovely color options like a cool, soothing periwinkle and a ruddy, robust plum. It feels sensual in the hand, all curves and dips, with a little peak in the center that evokes features of a vulva or frenulum. It also looks a bit like a tongue from the side, which is also cheeky.
The Dip is a simple toy. It's a waterproof vibrator clad in silicone, and it's quiet. It's a joy to use, to feel in your hand and against or inside your body. There's a level of polish and design here you just don't see in toys that are priced as affordably as the Dip.
Made from platinum-cured, medical-grade silicone. Great for all genitals and erogenous zones.
$35 at Dame $35 at Target Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Maude Another Great External Vibrator Maude Drop This tiny little vibrator packs a punch. It might be the most intense palm-sized vibrator we’ve ever tested. It has only three intensity settings, which is fewer than most toys on this list, but for the Maude Drop, it’s about quality over quantity. Each of its levels provides deep stimulating vibrations, but if you’re particularly sensitive you may want to be careful with the highest setting. It’s rumbly, powerful, and fast , which can be a nice way to end a session of solo use. It’s a great vibrator if you’re looking for something simple, discreet, and approachable.
Made from platinum-cured, medical-grade silicone. Great for all genitals.
$49 at Sephora $49 at Maude $49 at Bloomingdale's Photograph: Satisfyer Best Suction Toy for Most People Satisfyer Pro 2 Gen 3 Air Pulse Toy The Satisfyer Pro 2 Gen 3 lives up to its name. It's versatile, powerful, and surprisingly gentle. The whole body of the Gen 3 is covered in soft silicone, so it's easier to grip than previous versions. The buttons are all conveniently located along the back of the toy, right about where your fingertips naturally fall.
It's a refined version of a tried and true design, and it definitely feels like it. There's a level of care and craftsmanship in the build of this toy I appreciate. The mouth is removable so you can wash it or swap it with the new “liquid air” mouth—it simulates a tapping sensation more than a sucking or air pulse sensation, which is a fun change of pace. The Gen 3 also features built-in vibration functionality. The third button on the toy cycles through vibration patterns that can heighten things when you're in the thick of it.
Great for all genitals.
$60 at Amazon $90 at Satisfyer Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Lelo Best Luxury Suction Toy Lelo Sona 2 Cruise Suction toys are life-changing if you've never used one before, and after testing dozens of them, I can say with certainty that the Sona 2 Cruise is the absolute best high-end suction toy on the market. It's one I kept reaching for even outside of testing hours. The body fits in my hand perfectly, the buttons are in places that make sense, and it has a variety of intensities well-suited to just about any preference.
The cruise part of the name refers to Lelo's Cruise Control technology–which makes the toy ramp up intensity when you press it hard against your body. It's a smart sex toy, and it's my number one recommendation for anyone looking to try something new.
Good for all bodies, targeted suction stimulation for the clitoris, frenulum, or nipples.
$148.98 at Lelo $149 at Target $149 at Verishop Photograph: Vibratex Best Wand Vibrator Magic Wand Mini The original Magic Wand was always a bit bulky. Plus, it plugs into the wall, and I've never had a sexual encounter that was improved by the presence of an extension cord. The Mini solves both of those problems. It's small, fits easily in one hand, and is not too heavy. It's rechargeable, so no need to fumble with cables while you're using it. Plus, it offers a generous 2.5-hour battery life on a single charge.
The broad head of the wand delivers rumbly vibrations that start pretty gentle and ramp-up to you-can-feel-it-in-your-teeth strength. Two cool things are going on here, though. First, the rumbly vibrator head is sort of insulated from the rest of the wand, so it never makes your hand tired or numb from being vibrated. Second, the shape of the head means you can use the flat end or edges to stimulate broad areas of any erogenous zone, but you can use the edge for surprisingly precise targeted stimulation. Suffice it to say, the Magic Wand Mini is one of my new absolute faves.
Great for all genitals.
$76 at Amazon $100 at Lovehoney Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Dame Another Great Wand Dame Com Wand Vibrator Dame's take on the classic magic wand ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) introduces a new angle on an old favorite—literally. Most wands are straight, and nothing on the human body is straight, so using them to reach your most sensitive areas can be pretty awkward. The Com offers an elegant solution. The wand handle is angled ergonomically so the toy does all the reaching for you. The battery life could use some work though; you’ll only get about an hour out of a single charge.
Made from platinum-cured medical-grade silicone. Great for diffuse stimulation to the vulva, phallus, or sore muscles $119 at Dame $119 at Nordstrom $119 at Bloomingdale's Photograph: Motorbunny Best Sex Machine for Most People Motorbunny Buck There are generally two kinds of at-home sex machines. Ones that have a toy on the end of a robotic thrusting arm, and ones that you sit on like a saddle while it vibrates the seat and the attached toy. The Motorbunny Buck pulls double duty ( 8/10 WIRED Recommends ). It's a Sybian-style machine that can also thrust.
The Buck has a vibrating seat with a toy attachment oriented vertically and provides a back-and-forth motion. You can control both kinds of stimulation from the included controller, and honestly, it provides sensations you really can't get from any other kind of toy. It's truly a unique experience. The dual functionality makes it a great pick for anyone curious about at-home sex machines, because no matter what these things are expensive.
With this one, you at least get twice the bang for your buck.
Great for all genitals, internal and external stimulation.
$1,549 at Amazon $1,549 at Motorbunny Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Fun Factory Best Grinding Vibrator Fun Factory Laya III Many sex toys are designed with penetration in mind, but the Laya III is all about external pressure. You can lie on your stomach with the vibe cupping erogenous zones, or you can go handheld. The sensation is unique since the toy vibrates and “taps” at the same time. The multi-sensory feeling can be intense if you want, but with seven different speeds and three different programs, gentle stimulation is also an option. I also appreciate the travel lock, so my carry-on bag doesn’t start rumbling of its own accord. — Louryn Strampe Stimulating for all genitals.
$109 at Fun Factory Photograph: MysteryVibe A Thoughtfully Designed Phallus Ring MysteryVibe Tenuto Mini The Tenuto Mini ( 6/10 WIRED Recommends ) is the follow-up to MysteryVibe's original Tenuto, a somewhat large and clunky sex toy designed to stimulate the phallus and surrounding areas. Two of us on the team have tested the old version and found it a bit awkward. With the Tenuto Mini, MysteryVibe has addressed some of those issues and made the toy much better for it.
The new version is a lot smaller (hence the “Mini”), and it functions as a phallus ring with extra bells and whistles. It wraps around the base of the phallus and has three vibrating motors—two on the sides and one on the top. The body is semi-rigid but flexible enough to comfortably fit around an erect phallus. WIRED reviewer Eric Ravenscraft says it's best for solo use or penetrative sex, where it can rest (and vibrate) between you and a partner. You can control it from the app, so you don't need to worry about trying to slip your hand between you and a partner to change the speed or intensity.
Made from platinum-cured medical-grade silicone, works best with phalluses.
$156 at MysteryVibe Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Kindred Black An Approachable Glass Dildo Kindred Black Violet Duchess Glass Dildo Kindred Black's sexual wellness catalog is filled with luxurious items like the Violet Duchess here, but this is one of my personal favorites. Glass sex toys have a long history. They're non-toxic and nonporous so they're easy to clean, and they're more durable than you might expect. The smooth body takes to a variety of lubes well, making for a smooth and sensual experience whether you're alone or with a partner. It is, however, not flared, so it's not safe for anal use. Another nice thing about glass sex toys is that they can make elegant decor when they're not in use.
Made from hand-blown borosilicate glass. Great for external use on all bodies, good for internal use with vulvas, not safe for anal.
$95 at Kindred Black Photograph: Kindred Black A Functional Work of Art Kindred Black Brancusi Piccino Obsidian Phallus Obsidian is such a gorgeous material, but I'd never seen a sex toy made from it before this one from Brancusi Piccino. It's so black it seems to soak up the light around it, but in the right lighting, you can see silvery threads inside from minerals trapped millions of years ago when the volcanic glass was first formed and cooling. It seems like a weird choice for a sex toy, and this one is so beautiful that it almost feels like it belongs on a pedestal more than a nightstand. But rest assured, this is a functional work of art.
The smooth volcanic glass body takes lube just as well as any glass toy, but it's a bit thick so make sure you go slowly. Since it's shaped like a phallus, it has a flared base that makes it safe for anal use, but I'd still advise caution because glass can get extremely slick with silicone or water-based lubes. Being nonporous, cleaning and disinfecting is super easy, it's just a matter of thoroughly washing with hand or dish soap.
Made from obsidian, treat it like glass. Good for all bodies, internal and external use. Flared base makes it safe for anal use, but be careful because it can get slippery.
$185 at Kindred Black Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Boutique Voila Best Incognito Vibrator Voila Bob the Alien Vibrator Bob the Alien Vibrator doesn't look like a sex toy. It even glows in the dark! But he's a tiny wand vibrator. The alien's flexible silicone head houses a vibe with 10 different settings. Magnetic charging and complete waterproofness round out the package. Bonus: Your TSA agent will be none the wiser. — Louryn Strampe Great for external stimulation of just about any erogenous zone.
$36 at Boutique Voila Photograph: Crave Discreet and Stylish Crave Vesper Vibrator Sex toys are often relegated to closets, drawers, and hidden places to keep them away from prying eyes. Keep it secret, keep it safe; Gandalf knew what he was talking about. This toy is something different, though. It’s a thing you wear, not hide—like the Evenstar. The Vesper, from Crave , is a slender, powerful vibrator that pulls double duty as a bold statement necklace.
Even if you don’t wear it out and about, it’s a remarkably capable little vibe. It has just two vibration modes (steady and pulse), but it is shockingly powerful for such a tiny thing, plus whisper quiet. The pointed shape makes it a good choice for targeted stimulation, and it’s powerful enough that you’ll feel its vibrations deep in your body. Don’t put it in your body though. Vesper is strictly an external-use-only kind of toy. It’s bold and discreet, stylish and subtle. But above all, it’s a functional addition to anyone’s collection.
Great for targeted stimulation on the clitoris, nipples, or frenulum.
$69 at Crave Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Dame Pocket-Sized and Approachable Dame Pom Flexible Vibrator Just look at this little thing! It's cute and friendly. Pom is one of my favorites from Dame Products ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) and is a pocket-sized, waterproof vibrator with five vibration patterns, five intensity settings, and a soft squishy body meant to contour to a wide variety of erogenous zones. The vibrations resonate throughout the toy, but they’re concentrated at the tip. So you get targeted and broader stimulation all in one toy. Experimenting with the intensities, vibration modes, and even just how you touch it to your (or someone else’s) body can be a lot of fun.
Pom’s intuitive, ergonomic shape also makes it easy to use in the heat of the moment. The button layout is simple. You can easily feel which button is which without looking (a huge plus), so you can rapidly switch between modes and intensities.
Made from platinum-cured medical-grade silicone. Great for all genitals.
$95 at Amazon $99 at Dame Photograph: Tenga Cute and Cuddly Tenga Iroha Kushi This thing is so cute.
 I love a sex toy that can double as adorable home decor. The Iroha+ Kushi is shaped like a little hedgehog and features multiple vibration intensities and patterns (plus a charging base and cover to protect it from dust). It’s made from silicone and has a gel underneath, so it’s very soft and squishy. The ridges along its back allow for fun and varied sensations, regardless of the genitals you’re using it with. It’s a unique approach to sex toy design, and I’m a big fan. This little guy has a forever home on my nightstand.
Great for all genitals.
$87 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Mysteryvibe App Powered MysteryVibe Crescendo 2 Flexible Vibrator + App Sex toys are getting more technologically sophisticated every year. Crescendo from MysteryVibe is a smart vibrator with an app you can use to both control the toy and create and customize your own vibration patterns using its six (!) internal motors and 16 (!!) intensity settings. It’s also flexible; you can bend it in any direction to create a shape that works for your body or someone else’s. Not to mention, it’s waterproof.
Made from platinum-cured medical-grade silicone. Great for vulvas and phalluses.
$195 at MysteryVibe Photograph: Unbound Flexible Fun Unbound Bender The Bender is unique because it’s so flexible. You can shape it to fit your body for ideal external stimulation. It’s waterproof, and while the vibrations aren’t as powerful as a wand-style vibrator, they’re buzzy enough to make an impact. It’s also super quiet, even at its highest setting.
Best for vulvas and phalluses.
$74 at Urban Outfitters $71 at Unbound Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Lelo Slow Build Lelo Sila Upon first use, the Sila irked me. The gentle vibrations and soft suction were teasing, and not in a good way—or so I thought. I soldiered on, living the tough life of a product reviewer, and eventually, I was blown away. The toy has eight quiet settings, and even the highest is markedly less intense than what you may be used to. That’s intentional. Sila offers a slow buildup with a big payoff. The wide mouth focuses more on surrounding erogenous zones than similar sex toys, leading to a deeper and longer-lasting orgasm. Use it with lube (or in the bath) for solo sex or during foreplay with a partner. The wait will be worthwhile. — Louryn Strampe Great for vulvas.
$169 at Amazon $169 at Lelo Photograph: Satisfyer Best for Two Satisfyer Curvy 3+ Satisfyer’s Curvy lineup has been a personal favorite for a while, but the latest iteration, the Curvy 3+, is one of the best toys I’ve tested. It’s a dual-use vibrator and air-pulse stimulator. The air-pulse end provides steady, slow, but powerful suction, while the other end is where you’ll feel the vibrations most acutely. They’re pretty low-intensity even at the highest settings, which can be a good thing. It’s best to use this toy with a partner, with a person enjoying each end.
Good for the clitoris, frenulum, and external play.
$39 at Amazon $70 at Satisfyer Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Lelo Double the Fun Lelo Enigma Vibrator & Air Pulse Toy Lelo’s Enigma is a weird toy. It looks like a ship from Star Trek, or a curvy sculpture you’d see in a museum gift shop. Like the Rabbit vibrator before it, the Enigma is designed to stimulate both the clitoris and the G-spot. But instead of relying solely on vibration, the Enigma’s clitoral stimulation arm contains a powerful air pulse mechanism for providing suction that imitates the sensation of receiving oral sex. The bigger, rounder end of the toy is where the vibration motor lives. Its body is flexible enough that you can use just one end or the other at a time, but if you use them together, it’s an intense experience. Even going slow, the Enigma fires you off into space at warp speed—in a good way. That said, the vibration end is a bit thick at its widest point, so if you’re not comfortable with large-diameter toys, take it slow and easy. Use lots of lube.
Best for G-spot and clitoral stimulation.
$169 at Amazon $199 at LELO Photograph: Dame Flying Solo Dame Arc G-Spot Vibrator All of the devices on this list can be used with one or more partners, but the Arc from Dame is designed for—and excels at—solo use. It’s a waterproof G-spot vibrator with five vibration patterns and five intensity levels, and it has a soft, semi-flexible silicone body with a squishy silicone tip. The Arc’s gentle curvature is angled so you can easily reach your most sensitive parts with just one hand, and all the buttons are right within reach. The curvature and broad, squishy tip also make it really easy to hit the G-spot. Those factors make it fun to use, no matter what genitals you have.
Made from platinum-cured, medical-grade silicone. Excellent G-spot stimulation and broad tip works well on other erogenous zones.
$99 at Amazon $99 at Dame Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Tenga Twistable Fun Tenga Flex This affordable, unobtrusive sleeve has a discreet footprint—there are no obvious oversize fleshlight designs or silicone genitals to deal with. The spiral aesthetic is functional, too; the outer casing is flexible, allowing you to twist it to create an additional sensation. The soft, textured internal sleeve has varying intensity, suction, and noise levels, depending on the amount of lube used and how much you cover the air hole at the top. After solo sex, simply remove, invert, and clean the internal sleeve. The case cap doubles as a drying rack.
Great for phallic stimulation.
$39 at Amazon $39 at Tenga Photograph: Unbound For Backdoor Beginners Unbound Nudge Anal play can be intimidating. The Nudge (formerly called the Romp) is ridiculously affordable and just the right size for beginners—it’s not too big but not too small. The curved base keeps the toy firmly in place without being uncomfortable. The medical-grade silicone exterior is easy to clean, too. Just be absolutely sure to pair it with water-based lube. (We have other recommendations below, but Unbound’s Jelly is another good option.) Excellent for anyone looking to experiment with anal stimulation.
$25 at Unbound Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Lelo Motion-Sensing Fun Lelo Hugo Prostate Vibrator + Remote Control The Hugo is a remote-controlled prostate vibrator. If you don’t have a prostate, it still works great, packing two powerful motors with six vibration modes and 12 intensity levels. It’s waterproof, and it comes with an interesting feature: motion sensitivity. When Hugo is in motion-sensing mode, simply tilting or moving the remote control can lower or increase the intensity of the vibration. That makes it a lot of fun to use with partners but also really great for solo use.
If you’re new to anal toys, its moderate size is not intimidating. While the packaging and product materials use gendered language, the toy itself is excellent for all genders.
Good for P-spot stimulation.
$219 at Amazon $219 at Lelo Photograph: Pulse Best Hands-Free Lube Dispenser Pulse Warming Lube Dispenser We've all been there. You're just getting into it , with yourself or a partner (or partners), and it's time to grab the lube. But pumping a little hand sanitizer-shaped bottle until it squirts cold goop is not the most sensual act. The Pulse dispenser solves both of these problems. Just plug it in, load up the lube, and hold your hand underneath the sensor. Then it dispenses warmed lube right into your hand. Plus, if you have dexterity issues and encounter difficulty pumping a lube bottle, this dispenser will save your hands some strain.
The only downside is that you have to buy Pulse's proprietary (silicone or water-based) lube pods, but the dispenser comes with four of them right out of the box. Price-wise, they are more expensive than standard lube.
Great for all genitals and erogenous zones.
$189 at Amazon $179 at Pulse Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Maude Best Lube Maude Shine Organic Water-Based Lube Maude makes a lot of great products , but the one that stands above the rest for me is its Shine Organic Lube. It's a simple, unscented, water-based lube that stays slick and slippery without becoming sticky the way some water-based lubes can. It can also be easily rehydrated with a little saliva, so you can get a lot of mileage out of a really small amount. Read our Best Lubes guide for other picks.
$26 at Amazon (8 Ounce) $18 at Sephora (4 Ounce) $25 at Maude (4 Ounce) Photograph: Coconu A Spa-Quality Lube Coconu Water-Based Lubricant Most water-based lubes these days are made using aloe vera gel. They provide effective viscous slipperiness but can leave your fingers feeling sticky afterward. If you're looking for a cleaner finish or are allergic to aloe, Coconu's coconut-water-based lube is a good alternative. It's every bit as slippery-slidey as aloe-based lubes, but it leaves your skin a bit less tacky after use, and a bit more moisturized. Plus, it comes in an adorable little bottle that makes it look like an expensive spa-grade hand lotion.
$30 at Amazon $25 at Coconu Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Rosebud Woman Skin Care With a Secret Rosebud Woman Honor Lubricating Balm Rosebud Woman’s sexual wellness lineup is luxurious. It treats sexuality with reverence instead of scorn, feeling more like worship and less like a catcall. The language the company uses on its products is gendered (not all women have vulvas, and not all people with vulvas are women), but the Honor everyday balm might be my (Louryn) favorite lube of all time.
The consistency is magical. It’s thick, balmy, and melts down to oil with your body heat, providing intimate lubrication while softening and moisturizing the skin. It makes sense: We rub lotions and creams all over the rest of our body to keep our skin healthy. Why wouldn’t we do the same for more intimate areas? You can use the balm for lubrication, as a moisturizer, and for postpartum massage. Honor Balm also doesn’t immediately melt, so you get a few seconds to target the application. Nobody likes dealing with slippery lube bottles in the heat of the moment. — Louryn Strampe $90 at Rosebud Woman Photograph: Getty Images How to Choose the Right Sex Toy Shopping Tips If you’re new to sex toys, shopping for your first one can be intimidating. There are a lot of not-so-great and flat-out-bad sex toys.
Ask Yourself Questions: How do you like to be touched? What kind of experience are you looking for? Are you interested in trying something new? Do you want something for internal or external use? You should check out Oh Joy Sex Toy , a fantastic webcomic by artist Erika Moen. It’s an excellent resource for toy reviews and all kinds of sexual education content.
Take a Trip to a Store (or YouTube): Once you have some idea of what you want to try, you should try to find a local (gender-inclusive) sex shop and see if they have the toy you’re curious about. The feel, texture, weight, how the vibration feels—these are things that benefit from some hands-on time. That’s not always an option though. YouTube has a lot of hands-on videos. It’s not as good as feeling the toy yourself, but it’s the closest you can get without leaving your home. Good luck! Writer and Reviewer X Instagram Writer and Reviewer X Topics Shopping buying guides sex health Jaina Grey Simon Hill Christopher Null Simon Hill Lauren Goode Scott Gilbertson Scott Gilbertson Martin Cizmar WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
