Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Simon Hill Gear Review: Viture One XR Glasses Facebook X Email Save Story Photograph: Viture Facebook X Email Save Story $549 at Viture If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Rating: 6/10 Open rating explainer Fancy a portable, virtual, 120-inch screen to play games or watch movies anywhere you go? That’s the pitch for the Viture One XR glasses. They plug directly into your smartphone, laptop, or Nintendo Switch to act like any USB-C monitor. There’s also an optional neckband computer running Android for cloud gaming, remote play from your console, or movie streaming from Netflix.
The Viture One XR glasses first made headlines by raising over $3 million on Kickstarter, surpassing the original Oculus Rift.
 A year on, the mixed-reality glasses are shipping to backers. I snagged a Viture One Ultimate Pack to test, including the neckband, mobile dock, and a few other extras. While these are the best XR glasses I have used so far, it’s a low bar, and there’s still plenty of room for improvement.
Viture One XR glasses.
Photograph: Viture You may be wondering what XR actually means.
 It's an umbrella term covering VR (virtual reality), AR (augmented reality), and MR (mixed reality). Virtual reality has fallen short of mass adoption, but it has carved out a healthy niche. Recently, it has been overshadowed by mixed or augmented reality. With Apple’s Vision Pro on the horizon, there’s renewed hype for a category that has already seen limited success with efforts like Google Glass and Microsoft Hololens.
The Viture One XR glasses share some similarities with virtual reality headsets , but they don’t support VR games.
 You can still see the world around you with the Viture One XR, and they are relatively compact and sleek, weighing in at just 78 grams. They work by projecting a translucent screen on top of the real world.
They join a recent wave of technically similar devices like the Nreal Air (since rebranded to Xreal), Lenovo Glasses T1, and the Spacetop AR laptop we just tested.
 Rather than offer augmented-reality overlays or productivity enhancements, the Viture One XR glasses are all about entertainment, specifically gaming.
Four years after the chunky Vuzix Blade , you can feel the progress with XR glasses. At first glance, the Viture One could almost pass for regular sunglasses, and they are a touch lighter and slimmer than the Xreal Air. But the illusion that these are regular glasses evaporates for you and anyone else around the second you put them on.
Early impressions of the Viture One XR glasses featured complaints about comfort. Finding the sweet spot with tiny screens beamed directly in front of your eyes is daunting, and getting things into focus is tricky. The micro-OLED panels behind the lenses need some space, and most folks end up slipping the glasses a little further away from their eyes. They end up much further down your nose than regular specs, which is why everyone looks a bit funny wearing them.
The distance is essential to allow your eyes to focus. While it may emulate a 120-inch screen a few feet away, it never entirely fools your eyes into believing that. Viture has supplied a range of four nose pad sections that you can slide in to try and find the right fit, and there’s a diopter dial above each eye to adjust the focus (from 0.0D to -5.0D). After some fiddling, I found a position that worked for my big beak and sharpened up the screen, but I wouldn’t describe the glasses as comfortable.
Aside from the dials on top, there’s a button on the underside of the left stalk to activate the electrochromic film, which darkens the lenses to provide a less distracting backdrop for the screen. The only other button is a volume rocker to control the built-in speakers developed with Harman. They aren’t powerful, and headphones will always be a better choice, but it’s kinda neat that you can hear content well enough without broadcasting any sound to folks nearby.
Viture One XR Glasses Rating: 6/10 $549 at Viture If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED At the outside end of the right stalk behind your ear there’s a magnetic pogo pin spot to attach the cable and connect any USB-C device or the neckband. Once in place, it felt secure enough not to come loose accidentally, and it’s easy to connect and disconnect without looking.
Having a cable running down behind your ear is an unavoidable pain, but the wearable neckband is a clever alternative to a phone. With the neckband hooked up, your hands are free, and you can wander around without fear of tugging a cable out. A set of controls, including a d-pad, can be found on the inside left edge of the neckband, but you have to memorize the layout to make good use of it, as it’s too close to peer at and, frankly, a bit awkward to use. I far preferred using the Viture control app on my phone, connected via Bluetooth, to navigate around.
Plug the glasses directly into any smartphone, laptop, or PC with a USB-C port and they mirror the screen (an iPhone adapter is in the works). You can also plug directly into a Steam Deck. Other consoles, including the Nintendo Switch, Xbox Series X/S, and PlayStation 5, need the mobile dock as middleman.
Viture One XR.
Photograph: Viture The neckband is preferable because it leaves you untethered. It’s a wearable Android computer, so you can install Android games or apps like Netflix, Prime Video, and Disney+ from the Play Store. It also comes with the PSPlay and XBXPlay apps, enabling you to set up remote play on either console after jumping through a few hoops. Viture suggests Moonlight and Steam Link for PC gaming, and you can use cloud gaming services like GeForce Now and Xbox Cloud Gaming.
A virtual 120-inch screen is not to be sniffed at. Video is 1920 x 1080 pixels at 60 frames per second. Viture says the pixel density is around 300 to 400 pixels per inch (PPI). As a reference point, the latest iPhones are 460 PPI. The Viture One XR can also go as bright as 1,800 nits. I found the screen to be reasonably sharp and legible, and I would liken the experience to using a projector. The edges often felt blurry, and backdrop and lighting are crucial. As with a projector, a blank wall in a dark room is best, or it can get busy and confusing. Tapping the electrochromic button to darken the shades helps. Lens covers are another optional extra.
Viture One XR Glasses Rating: 6/10 $549 at Viture If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED After setting up remote play with my PS5, I had a blast of Spider-Man: Miles Morales and Horizon Chase.
 It mostly worked smoothly, but there were occasional visual glitches and a screen freeze. It could be a handy option for households sharing a single big TV, provided you have a speedy internet connection. Once the novelty wore off, I started to notice some of the shortcomings. I found that the right side of the glasses and the neckband got warm, and the fan soon kicked in whenever I played, which drowned out some of the game audio.
Less than half an hour into Horizon Chase, I began to feel nauseous. The sad reality for many folks is that XR glasses cause motion sickness, especially if you move around or the background changes. The disconnect between your eyes and body can trigger a reaction. I’m sometimes afflicted the same way with VR, especially with fast-moving games, and I find it uncomfortable to play them for more than an hour at a time. The effect does lessen with each session if you persist, and the 3DoF feature to lock the screen in place helps, but it has never entirely gone away for me. If you haven’t tried XR glasses before, get a demo of the Viture One XR before buying.
Playing around with them over the past couple of weeks, I have found the Viture One XR glasses very handy for mirroring my phone screen. Whether I'm in bed, at the kitchen table, or in the living room, the glasses allow me to watch my own movie or indulge my tower defense addiction without bothering my wife or kids. I’ve even used them for web browsing and the odd work email. They could work well for a long-haul flight or even a commute if you don't feel self-conscious using them in public.
Viture One XR.
Photograph: Viture One of the reasons the Viture One XR glasses are light and relatively compact is that they don’t have a battery. They draw power from whatever you plug them into, which is the major downside of using them with a phone. The mobile dock doubles as a large portable charger , with enough power for up to 12 hours (but only three hours with a Steam Deck or six hours with a Switch). The neckband lasts around three hours, maybe a little less, and takes over an hour to charge.
Viture One XR Glasses Rating: 6/10 $549 at Viture If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Even setting the motion sickness aside, there is a gulf between this virtual screen and a 4K OLED TV or gaming monitor.
 If I lacked access to a proper screen, the Viture One XR would be a great fallback, but I would never choose to use it over my TV or gaming monitor. Where the Viture One XR glasses shine for me is mobile gaming, whether on your phone or your Switch, with games designed for 1080p. For folks who want portability and flexibility, I can see the attraction. These glasses could also be a boon for people with limited mobility, especially the bed-ridden.
One last plus for the Viture One XR glasses is the pace of improvement. The developers seem to be listening and rolling out new features at a steady clip. For example, the 3DoF support, Viture control app, and remote play apps are all recent additions.
The RRP on the Viture One XR Glasses is $549 (currently $439). Add extras like the neckband ($199), mobile dock ($159), iPhone adapter ($99), or the mobile dock mount for Steam Deck or Nintendo Switch ($29), and it soon gets expensive. The Ultimate Pack I tested will cost $997 (currently $747). You could get a decent 4K TV and maybe even a second console for that kind of money, and you can snag the similar Xreal Air glasses ($379) for less.
Ultimately, the Viture One glasses narrowly surpass the competition, and they are easily the best option for gamers, but I’m unconvinced that XR glasses in their current state have mass appeal.
Viture One XR Glasses Rating: 6/10 $549 at Viture If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED $549 at Viture Contributor X Topics augmented reality Wearables portable gaming review Shopping video games gaming tips Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
