Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Julian Chokkattu Gear This New Platform Can Give AR Apps a Memory Boost Photograph: Hiroshi Watanabe/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Games Source Data Images Technology Machine vision Machine learning Imagine spilling a box full of Lego bricks over a table. Now—take a leap with me—don your imaginary augmented reality glasses. The camera in the AR glasses will immediately start cataloging all the different types of bricks in front of you, from different shapes to colors, offering up suggestions on models you can build with the pieces you have. But wait, someone is at the door. You go to check it and come back. Thankfully, your glasses don't need to rescan all of those pieces. The AR knows they're sitting on the table where you left them.
That ability to continuously remember real-life objects that have been scanned is the main pitch of a new AR software platform called Perceptus from Singulos Research.
 Perceptus can hold those objects in memory even if the camera is not directly looking at the scene anymore. As you walked over to answer the door, the Perceptus platform kept thinking about what else you could build with the pieces on the table. It didn't stop working just because you were no longer looking at the pieces.
WIRED Q&A Steven Levy Play Nice Laurence Russell Ideas Cecilia D'Anastasio “When we are in an AR space, we don't look at the whole room all at once, we only look at a part of it,” says Brad Quinton, Singulos Research's CEO. “As humans, we have no trouble with the idea that there are things that exist that we can't see at the moment because we saw them before and we remember them. Once you have AR that can understand what's around you, it can go off and proactively do things for you.” At least, that's the idea. Perceptus acts as a layer above existing AR technologies like Apple's ARKit or Google's ARCore , which developers use today to create AR apps. But a lot needs to happen behind the scenes before this can work on your smartphone or tablet.
The app developer provides Singulos Research with 3D models of the Lego bricks—or any object—it wants Perceptus to detect. The platform then uses a type of machine learning process in which it studies all the different ways it can expect to see the object in the real world, with different lighting conditions, on various surfaces, and so on. Perceptus is then layered over the developer's app, allowing it to utilize this new object comprehension. It's the developer's job to make sure the app actually gives you things to do with the objects, like the way our imaginary Lego app might suggest stuff you can build using the bricks it identifies.
Object scanning and identification are still very much manual processes. To start, app developers who license the Perceptus platform will need to provide computer-aided design models of the objects they want it to memorize. But those CAD models will be added to Singulos' library, and future developers will be able to hunt through the digital stacks to more quickly find the objects they need. Soon, Quinton expects Perceptus to be able to identify a swath of common items—especially since there are already “large numbers of very accurate 3D models available" from video game makers.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Courtesy of Perceptus Because the platform is trained to identify certain objects well before you launch an AR app that might utilize them, there's no need for image data to be sent to a cloud server for analysis. Perceptus runs locally on the device, and it can run just fine on existing mobile processors. Seeing it in action is impressive. Quinton moved an iPad closer to a table filled with Lego bricks, and I watched as the camera began identifying all the shapes and their colors in real time. It wasn't perfect—it missed a few pieces—but it was very close.
More impressive was the chess demo the company has built, which I used to virtually play chess against Quinton. He pointed the iPad's camera at a chessboard with only white pieces on it. As he moved a physical piece on his board, I saw the piece move on the illustrated board running in a browser tab on my computer screen. As I made a move, a virtual black piece (seen on the iPad's display) moved where I directed it on his board. It's awkward when it's viewed through the screen of an iPad, but it makes so much more sense when you envision this game playing out while you're wearing AR glasses.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Courtesy of Perceptus That's the long-term goal for Perceptus, Quinton says, pointing out how the platform already works on Apple devices, mobile devices powered by Qualcomm's Snapdragon chips, and even Google's Tensor processor—chips with neural accelerators that will likely power the upcoming wave of augmented reality devices from these companies. It should easily translate to other AR hardware.
“The thing that I find the neatest about this is the interaction between virtual and physical worlds,” Quinton says. “We kind of have this metaverse-y thing that's not real—there aren't any [chess] pieces here, but we've created this new reality. It's not hard to imagine you could have a chessboard on your side and you could have this app. Then we've created an overlapped, physical reality that we're both in but doesn't actually exist anywhere.” Matthew Turk, a computer vision researcher and the president of the Toyota Technological Institute at Chicago , says there's an advantage to this approach. You don't need to take a bunch of pictures of an object or have people find thousands of photos on the internet to feed into a machine learning algorithm. Turk says it's a nice solution for AR apps that require a physical component, but its applicability for general-purpose AR might be limited.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft “You don't have a CAD model of every object you come in contact with,” Turk says. “If they're really kind of focusing on just things you have CAD models for, then that's a fairly limited set—even though that set can grow over time through libraries that people provide. In the long run, that's not enough for everybody, but it is enough for a lot of interesting applications.” Working with 3D models in this way is a starting point, but we're still a few steps away from a world in which you just aim your AR glasses at something and they know exactly what they're looking at.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! How Telegram became the anti-Facebook Where to stream the 2022 Oscar nominees Health sites let ads track visitors without telling them The best Meta Quest 2 games to play right now It's not your fault you're a jerk on Twitter 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database ✨ Optimize your home life with our Gear team’s best picks, from robot vacuums to affordable mattresses to smart speakers Reviews Editor X Topics augmented reality AR VR artificial intelligence Metaverse Eric Ravenscraft Simon Hill Jaina Grey Adrienne So Jaina Grey Reece Rogers Brenda Stolyar Adrienne So WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
