Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Olivia Rodrigo Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions About Released on 09/14/2023 Hey, I'm Olivia Rodrigo and this is the Wired Autocomplete Interview.
[upbeat music] Hehehe, okay.
I'm scared.
[upbeat music] All right.
When did Olivia Rodrigo become famous? I was acting on shows when I was younger.
I was very fortunate to be in a few Disney shows and that was so much fun.
And then I put out drivers license when I was 17 and sort of changed my world forever.
So, maybe I'd say drivers license.
Simultaneously, everything changed in my life and nothing changed at all.
Feel the same, I hang out with the same people, I still have the same insecurities and fears.
I feel like I'm good at the same things.
It's just my environment just changed completely in such a short amount of time, which is kind of crazy.
Looking back on it, I'm like, wow, what a wild time.
When did Olivia Rodrigo get her driver's license? I got my driver's license a little late.
I think I was 17.
All my friends were getting their driver's license, driving around.
I would literally go to bed like thinking about it, dreaming about it.
And I booked an appointment to go to the DMV to take my test and I take my mom's car and I pull up and the test proctor or whatever is in the other seat and he's like, okay, like left, right, stop.
Blinker works, okay.
Brake lights work, great.
And he goes, honk the horn.
And I try to honk the horn and nothing comes out.
And I'm like, what? Like that's so weird.
And he's like, well, try again.
I keep trying and I keep trying and the horn doesn't work on my mom's car for some reason.
And they say, oh, you're unfit.
Like you can't take the test.
Your car's unsafe.
And I cry like a baby in the parking lot.
I was so distraught.
But then the second time that I took the test, I got a song out of it, too.
So I'd say that it was probably meant to be.
Why does Olivia Rodrigo make sad songs? Because it's fun.
People like to listen to sad songs.
I love listening to sad songs, even when I'm happy.
And they're really fun to write.
When I'm really low and I listen to a sad song that I absolutely love that captures that feeling really succinctly, it just helps you understand your feeling so much more.
And that's just in and of itself so powerful.
I love sad songs.
I'll love them forever.
Who is Olivia's songs about? Your mom.
All right.
Can Olivia Rodrigo parallel park? Guys, I wrote a song and I said I can't parallel park in the song.
I was 18 then.
I'm 20 now and I actually think that I am quite passable.
I did it the other day on a crowded busy street where there were people behind me, really putting pressure on me, and I was so proud of myself and my friend was in the passenger seat to witness.
So, one of my crowning achievements.
Is Olivia Rodrigo favorite color purple? Yes, my favorite color is purple.
I like it.
It's the color of magic and all things mystic.
Is Olivia Rodrigo friends with Jenna Ortega? Yes, I am.
Jenna and I grew up together on the Disney Channel which is a very strange way to grow up, but I've always thought she was the coolest and so happy for her and all of her success.
I truly don't know anyone more kind or deserving.
Is Olivia Rodrigo a good singer? I hope so, God.
I'm no Mariah Carey or anything, but I like to think that I convey some emotion in my voice and that's what counts.
Hope so.
How does Olivia Rodrigo write songs? I'm a very lyric based songwriter.
I love looking at songs as if they're just like pieces of poetry.
So lots of times inspiration for my songs will come across, someone will be saying something interesting in a conversation, I'll be like, wow, that's cool, that's catchy, or that rhymes, like, let me write that down.
Every time it's different.
Sometimes I'll come up with chords or melody that I like and finish it from there.
It's what's fun about it.
You never know, you never know how it's gonna happen.
How old was Olivia Rodrigo in high school? In high school, oh, I was like, um, high school age? High School Musical.
That makes way more sense.
Must've been 15.
How to draw Olivia Rodrigo easy? I'm not the person to ask here.
I'll give you a template.
I think I have like sort of heart shaped face.
I could be wrong.
Oh, God.
Think I have like almondy eyes.
This is just already super bad.
Okay, this is gonna be more of a Picasso.
[Olivia giggling] Oh God, that looks awful.
I tried to draw me sticking my tongue out to try to like remake the Sour cover so that it was clear it was me, but it looks terrible.
I write songs, I don't draw.
I tried.
All right.
What is Olivia Rodrigo's genre? I'd like to think that I make pop music that is adventurous.
I love rock music and folk music and singer songwriter music, obviously.
There's a little bit of sprinkles of that in there.
What song did Olivia Rodrigo change the lyrics to? Changed the lyrics to a lot of songs.
I suppose on Sour, it was very angsty and so lots of the songs on Sour didn't really change too much from the sort of original inception of the idea.
But I guess on this album I did a lot more polishing.
So every song always changing.
What is Olivia Rodrigo's most streamed song? drivers license and good 4 u? It's good 4 u? Wow, that's cool.
Thanks, guys.
Good for you.
I think I was rightfully really nervous that I was gonna be one hit wonder.
Nothing wrong with being a one hit wonder.
I was so happy to have that one hit when I had it, but it was really cool to see that good 4 u in some regards better than drivers license.
That was really cool.
Grateful for everyone who's streamed those songs.
Thank you so much.
What is Olivia Rodrigo vampire about? Olivia Rodrigo vampire is about me because all of my songs are about me and they're introspective and they're about nothing else.
Okay.
Will Olivia Rodrigo do a GUTS tour? Yes, I will.
I'm very excited.
Come see me.
It would be a lot of fun.
I'm so excited for this tour.
I think it's going to be a ball.
Does Olivia Rodrigo have a tattoo? It's debatable.
I got a matching tattoo with my best friend, Iris.
We got hearts on our pinkies and I don't know if you can tell, mine is completely worn off.
It doesn't look like a heart at all.
It looks like I like smudged sharpie on my hand or something like that.
So technically, there is some tattoo ink, but I don't know if I'd really classify it as a tattoo.
I think my next tattoo, I'm gonna wait till I have kids and then I'll get their names tattooed on me or something like that.
That's the plan.
Does Olivia Rodrigo say I love you in deja vu? I do say I love you in deja vu.
If you listen very closely, I go love you in between the chorus and the verse and then I go I love you because it's in between the chorus and the verse.
But you have to turn it up really loud to hear it.
Little secret from me to you.
Okay, Olivia Rodrigo album cover.
Yeah, I mean I have two albums.
They both have purple album covers.
This latest one has some rings that say guts on them because I love four letter words, all types of four letter words.
And hope you like it, yeah.
Olivia Rodrigo college.
I took a poetry class, so that was really fun.
And we actually turned one of the songs that I wrote in the poetry class, the poem's called lacy.
We turned it into a song on the album called lacy.
So, it was quite fruitful.
Olivia Rodrigo Jack White.
He's great.
He's one of my heroes.
So, go Jack White.
I think The White Stripes are so perfectly simple and so grungy and imperfect in the most beautiful, intentional way.
And he just like writes the catchiest riffs and hooks and I don't know how he does it.
It's like other worldly.
Olivia Rodrigo quotes from songs.
I don't know, there's kind of a lot to choose from.
I see brutal lyrics a lot.
People tell me that it's brutal out here a lot.
Mm, good 4 u.
Every time I meet a new person, they're like, oh 'good 4 u.' And I'm like, yeah, that's me.
So, maybe that.
Okay, Olivia Rodrigo's zodiac sign.
I'm a Pisces through and through, baby.
Pisces are like super emotional, super musical.
They like water, usually and I love water.
If I'm ever stressed out, I'll like jump in a pool or the ocean or even going in the shower and I'm just reborn.
I dunno.
Cool.
Okay, what is Olivia Rodrigo's new album called? My album is called GUTS.
I came up with a name many years ago.
I wrote a song that is not very good and will never see the light of day called Hate Your Guts and I always thought that was a really interesting phrase.
And I also love that guts can mean bravery.
Trusting your gut means intuition.
You know, spilling your guts is telling everyone your dirty little secrets.
So, a very loaded word and I like it.
What is Olivia Rodrigo's nickname? Lots of people call me Liv.
Some people call me Livy.
My mom calls me Livy Loubelle.
My grandpa calls me Oli.
You know, not terribly unusual.
What's Olivia Rodrigo's aesthetic? God, you know, some days I really don't know.
I really love nineties sort of grungy things.
PJ Harvey's style.
I love Alexa Chung's style.
TBD on that one.
I feel like I'm ever changing, ever evolving.
What is Olivia Rodrigo's daily routine? Lately, I've been waking up every day, I've been making a matcha, and eating two Brazil nuts 'cause I saw some TikTok that said that it's good for your hormones or something, which is probably like, a complete lie.
But I try to write every day.
Every day is different.
So, I always start that off with my matcha and my two Brazil nuts.
What shampoo does Olivia Rodrigo use? It's called Good Hair Day.
Someone gave it to me once and I just went with it.
Rollin' with it.
Those are all the boards.
So glad I could clear the air on what type of shampoo I use.
I know you guys were dying to know.
Burning question.
Now I feel like I need to go learn how to draw.
Thank you so much for watching.
[upbeat music] Melissa McCarthy & Kristen Bell Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions NASA Astronauts Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions Common Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Ice Cube Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Eve Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Seth Rogen & Rose Byrne Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions The Cast of Warcraft Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Slow Mo Guys, MatPat, AsapSCIENCE, and Burnie Burns Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dana Carvey Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Mr. Robot's Carly Chaikin Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Cara Delevingne Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Chelsea Handler Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Blindspot's Jaimie Alexander Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Aniston & Jason Bateman Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kate McKinnon & Vanessa Bayer Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Cast of "Rogue One" Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tracy Morgan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions The Cast of 'Sesame Street' Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Samuel L. Jackson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Lawrence & Chris Pratt Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Reggie Watts Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ryan Reynolds & Jake Gyllenhaal Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Evans Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Morgan Freeman, Michael Caine, and Alan Arkin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Anne Hathaway & Jason Sudeikis Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Salma Hayek & Eugenio Derbez Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Amy Schumer & Goldie Hawn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Steve Carell & Kristen Wiig Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Ferrell & Amy Poehler Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Al Gore Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions on Climate Change Matthew McConaughey & Idris Elba Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dave Franco, Kumail Nanjiani and Fred Armisen Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Cruise & Doug Liman Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Josh Brolin & Taylor Kitsch Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Matt Damon & Julianne Moore Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nick Jonas Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gaten Matarazzo and Joe Keery Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Last Jedi Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Cena Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Owen Wilson & Ed Helms Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Smith & Joel Edgerton Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Black Panther Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Google Search Team Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bruce Willis Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlize Theron & David Oyelowo Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions This Is Us Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Alicia Vikander Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Garner Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlie Day Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jeff Goldblum Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Taraji P. Henson & Tyler Perry Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Krasinski Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ansel Elgort & Suki Waterhouse Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Terry Crews Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Shawn Mendes Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Solo Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jodie Foster Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Best of Autocomplete: The Cast of Black Panther, Stranger Things and More Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Robert Pattinson & Mia Wasikowska Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Alison Brie & Marc Maron Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Sorry to Bother You' Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Ant-Man and the Wasp' Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Arnett Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mila Kunis & Justin Theroux Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ewan McGregor & Hayley Atwell Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Liza Koshy Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Dog Days' Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ken Jeong Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mark Wahlberg, Ronda Rousey and Lauren Cohan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Cho Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Rami Malek & Charlie Hunnam Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Anna Kendrick & Blake Lively Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Paul McCartney Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Keegan-Michael Key & Olivia Munn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Elizabeth Olsen Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Hart & Tiffany Haddish Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rhett & Link Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Riverdale Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bella Thorne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Mulaney & Nick Kroll Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Aubrey Plaza & Craig Robinson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Try Guys Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Keira Knightley & Mackenzie Foy Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Julia Roberts & Dermot Mulroney Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Emily Ratajkowski & Aaron Paul Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Sarah Silverman & John C. Reilly Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Margot Robbie & Saoirse Ronan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Natalie Portman & Jude Law Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Lin-Manuel Miranda Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Best WIRED Autocomplete Moments of 2018 Feat. Liza Koshy, David Dobrik, The Try Guys & More Ninja Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zedd Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bryce Dallas Howard Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions James McAvoy & Sarah Paulson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jane Fonda & Lily Tomlin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Daniel Radcliffe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Priyanka Chopra, Rebel Wilson & Adam Devine Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions David Dobrik Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Brie Larson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Freddie Highmore Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Oscar Isaac & Pedro Pascal Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Markiplier Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Colin Farrell & Danny DeVito Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Queer Eye Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nikolaj Coster-Waldau Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gina Rodriguez Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sean Bean Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Anthony Mackie Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lily Collins & Nicholas Hoult Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Wu-Tang Clan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Wanda Sykes Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charles Melton Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jessica Alba & Gabrielle Union Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jon Hamm & David Tennant Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Thomas Middleditch & O'Shea Jackson Jr. Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Sophie Turner & Jessica Chastain Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mindy Kaling & Emma Thompson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Smosh Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Holland, Zendaya & Jacob Batalon Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Millie Bobby Brown, Finn Wolfhard & Noah Schnapp Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Winona Ryder & David Harbour Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Andre Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Machine Gun Kelly Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlie Puth Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Novak Djokovic Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Anderson Cooper Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jim Gaffigan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Liam Payne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lilly Singh Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gwen Stefani Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dove Cameron Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Smith Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Niall Horan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lele Pons Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Hailee Steinfeld Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Louis Tomlinson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kiernan Shipka & Isabela Merced Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kristen Stewart, Naomi Scott, and Ella Balinska Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jack Black & Awkwafina Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions KJ Apa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions The Best of Autocomplete 2019: Funniest Moments from Stranger Things, Spider-Man and More Billy Eichner & Cobie Smulders Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Frozen 2 Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jada Pinkett Smith Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zach Galifianakis & Zoe Saldana Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Elijah Wood Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Noah Centineo & Lana Condor Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Lucy Hale Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Patrick Stewart Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Norman Reedus Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Astronaut Chris Hadfield Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nick Offerman Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Binging with Babish Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jamie Dornan & Shailene Woodley Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ellie Kemper Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Joe Biden Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ricky Gervais Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Alicia Keys Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tony Hawk Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Russell Crowe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Bacon Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Joey King & Joel Courtney Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kermit & Miss Piggy Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Alessia Cara Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jamie Foxx & Joseph Gordon-Levitt Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mayim Bialik Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Desus & Mero Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dolly Parton Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ruby Rose Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sonequa Martin-Green Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chelsea Handler Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John C. Reilly & Tim Heidecker Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Joel McHale Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Questlove Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dua Lipa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zara Larsson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bob Odenkirk and RZA Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions SpongeBob's Tom Kenny & Bill Fagerbakke Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jackson Wang Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Andre Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions...Again LILHUDDY Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Polo G Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Hank Azaria Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zack Snyder Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions TWICE Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions MONSTA X Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Siri, Alexa and Google Home Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rich Brian and NIKI Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions B.I Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Never Have I Ever Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions M. Night Shyamalan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Henry Golding Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions BTS Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Emily Blunt & Dwayne Johnson Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Hudson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Outer Banks Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rita Ora Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dove Cameron Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions...Again Daniel Radcliffe Answers MORE of the Web's Most Searched Questions Ben Platt & Amandla Stenberg Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Hardy & Andy Serkis Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions On My Block Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Daniel Craig & Lashana Lynch Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions William Shatner Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Madison Beer Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Marshmello Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Amanda Seyfried & Finn Wittrock Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nina Dobrev Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kit Harington Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kristen Bell & Kirby Howell-Baptiste Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dominic Monaghan & Billy Boyd Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Cowboy Bebop Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions YouTube Search Team Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jack Whitehall Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Andrew Garfield Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sabrina Carpenter Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Simu Liu Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Holland, Zendaya & Jacob Batalon Answer MORE of the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Nam Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ben Affleck & Lily Rabe Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions ATEEZ Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Seth Rogen Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Owen Wilson Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions David Byrne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Johnny Knoxville Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Channing Tatum & Sandra Bullock Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Karen Gillan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Leslie Mann & Judd Apatow Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Cole Sprouse Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nicolas Cage Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions TommyInnit Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Drew Gooden Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Seth MacFarlane Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sadie Sink, Noah Schnapp & Gaten Matarazzo Answer the Web’s Most Searched Questions Taika Waititi Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Maisie Williams Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Jacksepticeye Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Hemsworth Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Guinness World Records Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Russo Brothers Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Keke Palmer Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Marques Brownlee Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Neil Patrick Harris Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Lopez & Leah Remini Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dakota Johnson & Jeff Bridges Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions High School Musical: The Musical: The Series Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Hart & Mark Wahlberg Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Danny DeVito Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lili Reinhart Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Boyega Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sofía Vergara & Simon Cowell Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Steve-O Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Stray Kids Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Charli & Dixie D'Amelio Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions NCT 127 Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Hasan Minhaj Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Cobra Kai's Ralph Macchio Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mrwhosetheboss Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chloë Grace Moretz Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Millie Bobby Brown Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jenna Ortega Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Veritasium's Derek Muller Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jason Momoa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions LaurDIY Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nigel Ng & Uncle Roger Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Finn Wolfhard & Guillermo del Toro Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ludwig Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Krasinski & Michael Kelly Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions ITZY Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Danny Gonzalez Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ashton Kutcher Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Paul Rudd & Jonathan Majors Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Outer Banks Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Again Kelly Slater Answers Surfing Questions From Twitter KAROL G Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Penn Badgley Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Pine, Hugh Grant & Michelle Rodriguez Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Willem Dafoe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions KSI Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bob Odenkirk Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jisoo Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ali Wong & Steven Yeun Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Evans & Ana de Armas Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Airrack Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions ChatGPT Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions James & Sean Gunn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mark Hamill Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Shameik Moore, Issa Rae & Hailee Steinfeld Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Segura Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Robert Downey Jr. & Christopher Nolan Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Bear Grylls Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Smosh Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Ice Cube Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Stephen Curry Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions 'Heart of Stone' Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions 'Critical Role' Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Harry Mack Freestyles The Web's Most Searched Questions Olivia Rodrigo Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Pokimane Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions MoistCr1TiKaL Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Dream Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Fanum Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Casey Neistat Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions | WIRED Måneskin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
