Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons How This Trick Shot Artist Invented 10,000+ Pool Shots About Released on 08/23/2023 This is the machine gun jump shot.
[intriguing music] [billard balls banging] [Narrator] Meet Florian Kohler, better known in the pool community as Venom.
One of the best trick shot artists in the world.
I've probably invented over 10,000 new shots.
[Interviewer] Could you name all of them? I don't bother naming them.
Sting shots, machine gunshots, satellite shots.
I really don't know.
They don't have a name.
[Narrator] Having spent years honing his craft, Florian's ability to spin and control pool balls borders on the supernatural.
I always thought this was gonna be, you know, two years, then five years, then 10 years.
Now it's going into 15 plus years.
[upbeat music] This is a crisscross twin masse.
[cue stick thuds] So it's a very technical shot.
[billard balls thudding] I'm gonna have two cues.
I'm gonna have to hit those two cue ball in the same time.
The left ball is right spin and the right ball is left spin.
Meaning this ball I'm gonna hit on the right side and this ball on the far left side.
The next part I gotta avoid is contact in the middle.
If both balls touch each other, usually no good.
If I put too much right spin, I may not have enough back spin.
And if I put too much back spin then the balls will come back in the middle.
[cue stick thuds] [billard balls thudding] This is a long rail masse.
[billard balls thudding] A masse is when you put a lot of spin on the cue ball by doing a vertical motion and impacting a lot of force down.
So you're gonna do bottom and a touch of left spin.
That's gonna propose the ball forward making the corner.
The cue ball's gonna then come back into the other red ball.
This is also using what we call a masse cue, so it's a little heavier than normal pool cue.
The shaft is made out of Kevlar carbon because it has to be resistant, because there's a lot of impact and it's a very damaging shot.
[Narrator] Florian's high intensity trick shots have garnered him thousands of fans, as well as a poisonous nickname.
Every pool player kind of has a nickname, right? It's either given or kind of chosen.
It sort of depends, right? When I first started because I didn't have any idea how to play normal pool I went right away with the very technical damaging shots.
So learn how to masse and jump and that obviously doesn't go very well for your cloths.
My dad called me in French, a poison for the table because he originally bought this table for himself.
Couldn't really play on it because it's too broken up.
So then somebody's like, oh we should call you a Venom, and it kind of stuck.
This is a satellite masses, super pretty, but very difficult shot.
[cue ball banging] A few years back it was deemed almost impossible to do live.
You're gonna shoot the ball into the rail.
This short rail back, then this long rail, then it's gonna curve back into the three ball.
If you just shoot the ball to the rail it will do something like this.
As you can see, our cue ball moves away, right? To make that solid masse, we've gotta go maximum, maximum left spin and the little bit of top spin even, and try to fight the current to make the red ball.
Very, very difficult.
I'm probably one of the rare in the world that can do this shot consistently.
I was supposed to be by trade an optometrist but that was a bit boring for me and I love pool too much, so I decided to scrap it and went pool for a career.
I can't really advise kids to do the same 'cause it's kind of a gamble.
But I would say I spent a good part of my college years being at a pool room until two in the morning, doing a lot more pool than studying.
Even to this day, even running four business now in the same time I still probably put 30 hours a week in the pool table.
The biggest misconception for trick shot is that it's easy, that you can do it all the time.
It's couldn't be further from the truth.
You never learn how to make a shots.
You learn how to miss them.
You learn how to miss on the left, you'll know how to miss on the right, you learn to miss in the middle and that's why even in tournaments we had three tries in the world championship, you'll have three tries.
[cue balls banging] Story of my life.
Stupid game.
[Narrator] While it can take several tries to get each trick right some of Florian's interactive shots require expert precision.
For this one, I need a volunteer.
Lucky for us, we already have one.
This is what I call the Nutcracker.
Let's wish him good luck.
[cue ball banging] That was amazing.
You almost got killed because you moved, so.
This is the jump out of the rock masse.
[cue ball banging] The trick is to jump the ball but instead of just going forward, it has to come back.
So you gotta find a happy medium between enough air and the side spin and the back spin.
I try to be very loose on the back end too and hit that with a very pure stroke.
[Narrator] Spreading his passion for the game, Florian took us to a pool hall to show us that with the right setup, anyone can make a trick shot.
Even me.
[billard balls thudding] So this was the butterfly shot.
I'm going to take an extra ball here.
Let's grab the 14, move it right in front of the cue ball.
The nine ball on this side.
Make a line as my cue.
One ball there, right on.
Line up the two ball.
So as you can see the two ball is not lined up towards the pocket at all.
Same thing here for the three.
We're gonna just repeat the process.
The 10 ball is pointed out of it and the 11 is pointed out this way.
And the reason is because of friction.
So friction was gonna make my ball turn.
If it was newer it would be less friction.
There'll be more aim towards the pocket.
Still a bit off but not quite as far.
[Narrator] With Florian's assurances, it was easy.
I decided to give it a try.
[billard balls thudding] Oh my god, that was so close.
So close.
[billard balls thudding] I don't know if I hit it hard enough.
It's a little soft.
Oh, robbed, I was robbed.
Same, well it's a little soft down the wire now.
[billard balls banging] Oh it's looking good.
That's so cool.
There you go.
That's awesome.
So physics, once the setup is right, pretty much anybody can do it.
Now there's a little bit of skill that you hit it perfect but you made all six balls.
New personal record, right? By far, by at least four balls.
And now you gotta show off with your friends.
Why do I think people love watching pool? I think simply because there's something fascinating about it.
You could put a four year old on a pool table and they love to just throw the balls around and see what happened, right? [Narrator] Making the balls bend and curve to his will, Florian has to see the pool table in a way that no one else does.
First the size.
Are you gonna go from a bar that has usually what we call bar box to professional table which is nine foot, they even make 10 foot now.
There's an adjustment there.
Then the size of the pockets, again, bar, you can have wide pockets, newer professional table, much smaller.
The felt itself, its thickness and then the ball from low end plastic ball, they're very heavy.
To like what we have now phenolic resin, which is the top of the line.
Now on top of that you're gonna have to think about the weather.
I know it sounds crazy, but humidity affects pool in a way that's unimaginable.
Changes everything from you're aiming to the way the ball reacts.
People think there's a lot of math involved.
Yes and no.
It's not quite as far as the formula goes.
You don't necessarily have to explain it, put it black and white because at the end of the day there's so much feel to it that it doesn't really work.
But if you don't visualize the angle it's very tricky to go far with this.
This is a railroad shot.
[cue sticking thuds] The railroad is a pretty old shot.
So in my way I'm hitting it here.
It's going up table, it's coming back down table and it's gonna have enough back spin to climb on top of the cues, and then with the speed and the way the cues are slanted they're gonna roll down and make the red ball here.
The hardest part of this trick is to hit the ball that perfect on the speed so it doesn't go off the table or back down.
So you just gotta find the right amount of speed and right amount of spin.
This is the Russian doll curve shot.
[billard balls clanking] So normal cue ball, English pub cue ball, and then this gets very interesting last three.
So this is from a toy table already like a three foot table.
And then now we're going even smaller and those I think are like one foot tables.
It's so little that I'm gonna have to deliver it just right.
[cue stick thuds] Just like that.
This is the egg shot.
[billard balls banging] So I'm gonna put a lot of left spin on the egg, which is by the way, the same material as a normal pool ball.
The egg is gonna raise on its side, stand up for a bit and spin.
[Narrator] No matter how much time Florian spends on his home tables or in pool halls he still views pool in a one of a kind way.
A normal player, they'll learn a bunch of preconceived idea about what the game is and how the ball should move and what's possible, right? I think this is the main difference really.
I just had no preconceived idea and just everything was possible and never put any stop to anything.
[billard ball thuds] The Ultimate Paper Airplane A DIY Space Suit for the 99 Percent Meet the 89-Year Old Who Built a Train in His Backyard How This Woman Rides 20,000 Miles a Year on Her Bike How This Guy Folds and Flies World Record Paper Airplanes Meet The Domino Artist Behind These Amazing Chain Reactions These Star Wars Fans Are Building a Full-Size Millennium Falcon Cockpit Melody Yang Makes Bubbles That Billow, Bend and Break Records How Joseph's Machines Builds Crazy Contraptions How Gravity Built the World's Fastest Jet Suit How a Harvard Professor Uses Toys and Origami to Transform Design How This Guy Built a Roller Coaster In His Backyard How This Guy Became a World Yo-Yo Champion How This Guy Became a World Champion Boomerang Thrower How This Artist Makes Sculptures Out of Old Typewriter Parts How to Make and Throw an Indoor Boomerang How This Pinball Collector is Saving the Game How This Woman Started Diving in DIY Subs How This Artist Makes Mirrors Out of Pompoms and Wooden Tiles How This Guy Made the World's Hottest Peppers How This Guy Became a Whistling Champion How This Guy Builds Record-Breaking Balloon Sculptures How This Guy Became a Pizza Spinning World Champion How This Artist Uses A.I. & Data to Teach Us About the World How This Artist Collapses Dimensions How This Guy Makes His Own Novelty Instruments How This Guy Builds Mesmerizing Kinetic Sculptures How This Guy Balances Impossible Rock Structures How This Guy Stacks Playing Cards Impossibly High How This Artist Makes Magnetic Fluid Sculptures How This Guy Paddles Kayaks Over Massive Waterfalls How This Guy Makes Incredible Sand Art How This Girl Takes Indoor Skydiving to the Next Level How This Woman Makes Mesmerizing Light Sculptures How This Craftsman Weaves Huge Wooden Sculptures How This Guy Replicates Diamonds How This Guy Makes Lifelike Cardboard Sculptures How This Guy Builds Amazing Lego Models How This Woman Makes Epic Gingerbread Houses How This Guy Mastered Fingerboarding How This Guy Makes Real-Life Marvel Gadgets How This Woman Mastered Jump Rope Inside the World's Greatest Dungeons & Dragons Game How This Treasure Hunter Finds Underwater Riches How This Woman Paints Hyperrealistic Nail Art How This Pro Slackliner Crosses Canyons Meet the Self-Taught Medicinal Mushroom Cultivator Meet the Guy Making Horror Movie Masks for 40 Years How this Guy Makes the World’s Smallest Handmade Sculptures How This Chalk Artist Creates Illusions on Pavement How This Guy Mastered the Slinky How This Guy Makes Puppets That Move Like Real Creatures How This Woman Creates God of War’s Sound Effects How This Guy Makes the World's Most Inventive Clocks How This Guy Became The Best Rock Skipper On The Planet How This Guy Invents Crazy Skateboards For Custom Tricks How This Trick Shot Artist Invented 10,000+ Pool Shots Why This Woman Deconstructs Antique Books To Save Them Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
