Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Archaeologist Answers Archaeology Questions From Twitter About Released on 07/04/2023 I'm archeologist Andrew Kinkella, and I'm here to answer some of your questions on Twitter.
This is Archeology Support.
[gentle upbeat music] @landyhoz, What is the difference between archeology and paleontology? Paleontology is about very old things, like dinosaurs, and on the order of millions of years old.
Archeology is about much more recent human past, largely the last 10,000 years.
There is a wing of archeology that deals with ancient human ancestors where we're studying on the order of early human evolution from several million years ago.
@Anyextee asks, What do you think is the most significant archeological discovery in recent years and why? The find of Richard II, which was amazing, in a parking lot.
That just shows you that things change.
People move around.
People forget things that were one really, really important.
Another one on my top 10, the find of the shipwreck, the Endurance, off the coast of Antarctica.
The Endurance got lodged in the ice.
Ultimately, it sank because the ice would melt and the ship would sink.
They had to use ROVs, remote operated vehicles, in order to find this thing, because of its depth.
@athienofanacco1 asks, Do y'all only use those little brushes at dig sites? Like, that would drive me mad using that all day.
We use all different kinds of tools in archeology depending on the situation at hand.
The trowel is the tool of the archeologist.
You can dig fast with the long edge of it or you can be really precise with the pointy tip.
[trowel clinking] Archeology is much more about touch sometimes than you would think and sound.
You could hear a little clink, time to slow down.
So I take the trowel, put it down, bust out the brush.
As I brush, we can see the artifact.
At that point, we can switch to the popsicle stick.
I can push and you don't have that metallic clink.
What we would do at this point, pedestal the artifact.
We would dig around it.
We can say the artifact is 10 centimeters deep, 20 centimeters from the west wall, 17 centimeters from the north wall, and then we have the artifact's exact location.
This artifact is called a Clovis point, a very specific tool to some of the first people to ever enter the New World.
@CheungMattias asks, Honestly, I still don't know how the Rosetta Stone works.
The Rosetta Stone is one of the most important archeological discoveries, because it led to the cracking of Egyptian hieroglyphics.
Rosetta Stone was found in 1799 by Napoleon's science team that he brought with him in the town of Rosetta in Egypt.
What makes it so important is because it says the same thing three times.
At the top, it's in ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics, in the middle, it's in demotic, and at the bottom, it's in Greek.
So you have this one piece that you can read, and then you sort of have a key where you can start to build off of and figure out what the different symbols mean.
@iamnjogu asks, Curious about these stone tools discovered from ancient man? How do the archeologists know it's not just a chipped rock? If this just rolled down a hill, it would look different.
If I'm an ancient toolmaker and I'm using a hammer stone on this, I'm gonna hit it really hard to get a flake to pop off.
It's gonna create what's called a bulb of percussion.
It's gonna create this divot.
Also, in terms of ancient stone tools, they're gonna use things like obsidian, it's volcanic glass.
Those types of stones can make a really, really sharp edge.
On the flip side, this is a hammer stone.
It was very specifically sought after by ancient people for its qualities of not being too soft or too hard, and you can use it to make good stone tools.
@Zefwagner asks, I don't know what the hell a Dial of Destiny is, but I sure as hell know that a dial is inherently less exciting than an ark, a temple, or a grail.
The Dial of Destiny is the new artifact that they're gonna use in the new Indiana Jones movie.
What they're relating this to is something called the Antikythera mechanism and its ability to track the rotation of planets over time.
I think what it really shows is an excellent use of math to make the gears so precise that it could at least work for a while.
@_AtangBiyela asks, Why do archeologists excavate graves again? Sometimes we come across them and we don't expect it.
I will say that is the most common way that we find human remains.
It's a little bit of a deep moment.
You do start to think about your own mortality.
Human remains that you find in a grave tell you so much about the past.
The human skeleton itself can tell you how that person died.
Did they have any diseases? What was their social status? It can tell you about the religion of the culture.
When we excavate something like a human burial, we go very slow.
We work with local communities.
Where are you gonna store these human remains? Are you going to rebury these human remains? @goff_logan asks, How does this carbon dating thing work? Carbon-14 is an isotope.
It breaks down over time.
And what we can do is measure the rate at which it breaks down.
Let's say after I'm filming this, I walk off and I die in the parking lot.
My carbon-14 starts to go down.
5,730 years from today, I will have half as much carbon-14 as I did in the beginning.
Now if you add another 5,730 years, I have a quarter of what I had.
Now you gotta watch it, because it only works on things that were once alive.
You cannot carbon-14 date a rock.
But for living things, burials, remains, we can get a date for it.
@rstephens asks, LIDAR is being advanced partly by its use in self-driving car research.
How long has it been used for archeology? It's been used in archeology in the last 10 years or maybe more.
But LIDAR is a bunch of lasers shot down from a plane or a helicopter that flies over a site.
What it gets is really, really specific geographic and mapping data.
So as the plane flies over and shoots a bunch of lasers, the trees actually blow a little, so a couple of the laser beams will get down to the ground surface.
It used to be just prohibitively expensive.
These days, the more and more we get of that, the more projects actually have it due to the decreasing cost.
@brycepwrites asks, How often do archeologists have to think, 'Are these bones a crime scene or a discovery?' I did once work on a salvage archeology project where a construction crew had accidentally hit a family plot that was about 80 years old.
The skeletal material was still kind of supple.
You can really tell the difference if you're working with something that's thousands of years old, because it's totally dry and it started to kind of wither away.
So they're not bleach white like you would think.
They're sort of a dull brown.
I still will call the coroner just to make double sure.
@katyazeisig asks, Anyone else wonder how accurate a forensic facial reconstruction artist would be if they just had your skull to work off of? We have to realize that it's not perfect.
In terms of facial reconstruction from a skull, some things you can get are stuff like the cheeks.
Are the cheeks higher or lower? The eye sockets, the brow ridge, the chin, the teeth.
Sometimes the chin will be more of a jutting chin.
But stuff like what was the overall shape of the nose? You know the ears.
You're gonna go with the trends of the time.
So if you're working on a skull that's 4,000 years old and it's a male skull, you're gonna put some sort of beard on it, because they didn't have BIC razors 4,000 years ago.
Archeology is literally three pieces of the thousand-piece puzzle.
@MalakaiWaters asks, Do archeologists just go to random places and be like, 'I feel like there's something important here,' and then just start digging? We only excavate after we've surveyed and mapped the location.
We are looking for the best possible places that archeological sites might exist.
The ancient Maya would build on good soil.
If there's a forestry company or something who has made a map of the soil quality throughout the region, I love getting that map, because that makes my work that much easier.
I was working on a project in downtown LA where they were replacing the sidewalk.
And they took up some of the concrete and there was a human skeleton right there.
This was a human skeleton that had been there for hundreds of years.
In the modern world, we wanna have archeologists along with construction projects and building projects, because they do find things like this from time to time.
@John_engineer asks, What's the most valuable artifact you have ever found? I'm gonna go with an entire Mayan pyramid.
I found the pyramid through Google Earth at home.
I rolled the cursor over this area of the jungle and the altimeter would go bloop, bloop, bloop, bloop, bloop, bloop.
And I thought, You know, next time I'm in that area of the jungle, I gotta go back there and check out that area.
And yes, it actually was an ancient Maya pyramid.
@jo6totorobear asks, What archeological find do you wish you had made and why? The tomb of Tutankhamun.
Howard Carter, in the early 1920s, it took him several field seasons, and he had to look for months through the entire Valley of the Kings.
At his last little survey square, that's where it was.
Those artifacts are amazing.
Stuff like wood that's 3,000 years old, it looks like it was made last week.
They tell you so much about this little moment in time when this young king died unexpectedly.
@Janelovesbees asks, Do archeologists even do sex estimations of skeletons? Yes, and it's usually fairly easy.
The two best places to look are the skull and the pelvis.
For a male skull, it tends to be more robust.
It'll just sort of be bigger overall, a bit more angular, although there's a lot of overlap on this.
So you have to look at different, very specific parts of the skull in order to be sure.
I got this wrong once.
Now, it was a skeleton that had no head.
The pelvis looked very, very narrow, and I was like, It's a guy.
Once they got it to the lab and they could look more closely, it was a female who had a very narrow pelvis.
In the field, there's still parts of it covered with mud, it's in a bad position.
But once it's in the lab, it's under controlled conditions, you can get really exact measurements, you can just get a much better idea of what's going on.
@reactive_yuri asks, I finished watching 'Ancient Apocalypse' last night.
Why do the experts dismiss Hancock's hypothesis as baseless? Ancient Apocalypse is a Netflix series whose central premise is there was a cataclysm about 10,000 years ago that destroyed a super-advanced, super civilization and we only have bits and pieces of that left.
It didn't happen, there is no evidence.
One of the best examples of this is the Piri Reis map.
It was done in the early 1500s, made by this guy named Piri Reis.
Pseudo-archeologists, like Graham Hancock, say, This is evidence that ancient people explored Antarctica.
It's just not.
It's proof that ancient mapmakers ran out of paper, curved it around.
This is just a part of South America.
We can't use this today as serious scientific evidence, it's not.
@Motmotorg asks, Did you know that the Maya believed that natural sinkholes, called cenotes, were sacred portals to the underworld? I am a Mayanist and I did my dissertation on the cenotes of Belize.
Sometimes they were just used for water, but other times they did sacrifice people into the cenotes from time to time.
I don't want you guys to think that human sacrifice happened like every weekend or something, it didn't.
If the crops were going poorly and if there was no rain, you may sacrifice somebody who was usually a captured warrior from one of the other cities.
Take this person to the edge of the cenote, you would slash them through their chest.
We have found human remains in some of the cenotes.
We have accounts from the Spanish of seeing this kind of thing happen.
In terms of my research, we did find a little building right on the edge of the cenote, and we would call that a water shrine, and that would be the place where these kind of rituals would take place.
@ethvnsroom asks, Why do archeologists dress like that? It depends on the environment you're working in.
For me in the jungle, I'm gonna wear a light shirt, I'm gonna have boots on, I'm gonna bring a machete with me in order to cut through the jungle.
I'm gonna wear a hat, protects you from the sun.
You will also bring with you a bunch of different tools in a backpack or a satchel, a GPS unit.
If I had to bring one thing with me, it would be a compass.
The compass will get you home.
GPS units are great, they work on batteries.
And once you're outta batteries, you're dead.
Always trust your compass.
@Rocketeer46 asks, Why are there so many archeological discoveries of late? Are there more archeologists, or is it technology, or what's the reason? It is true that we tend to be finding more and more stuff.
We do have more modern technology, like LIDAR.
There's also satellite technology that help us find new sites and we can see things like ancient trade routes.
But a major part of this is world overpopulation.
There is more and more excavation, so we find new archeological sites in every country of the world.
@Oikade20 asks, What do archeologists not know or debate that you would most like an answer to? When did human beings first enter North and South America? The overwhelming evidence points to Asia, across to Alaska, and then down.
We have very good evidence up to about 16 or 17,000 years ago.
It's really hard to say after that.
You have sites way down in South America that can be quite old too, 21,000 years or 40,000 years, but the evidence isn't quite good enough.
A decade from now, maybe we know more than we do now.
Those are all the questions for today.
Thanks for watching Archeology Support.
[gentle upbeat music] Gordon Ramsay Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers Medical Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Jeff Kaplan Answers Overwatch Questions From Twitter Nick Offerman Answers Woodworking Questions From Twitter Bungie's Luke Smith Answers Destiny Questions From Twitter Jackie Chan & Olivia Munn Answer Martial Arts Questions From Twitter Scott Kelly Answers Astronaut Questions From Twitter LaVar Ball Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Dillon Francis Answers DJ Questions From Twitter Tony Hawk Answers Skateboarding Questions From Twitter Jerry Rice Answers Football Questions From Twitter Garry Kasparov Answers Chess Questions From Twitter U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Athletes Answer Olympics Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Anil Seth Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Ben Brode Answers Hearthstone Questions From Twitter John Cena Answers Wrestling Questions From Twitter The Slow Mo Guys Answer Slow Motion Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Even More Science Questions From Twitter James Cameron Answers Sci-Fi Questions From Twitter Best of Tech Support: Bill Nye, Neil DeGrasse Tyson and More Answer Science Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers Even More League of Legends Questions from Twitter PlayerUnknown Answers PUBG Questions From Twitter Liza Koshy, Markiplier, Rhett & Link, and Hannah Hart Answer YouTube Creator Questions From Twitter NCT 127 Answer K-Pop Questions From Twitter Neil deGrasse Tyson Answers Science Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers More Medical Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Claire Answer Cooking Questions From Twitter Bang Bang Answers Tattoo Questions From Twitter Ed Boon Answers Mortal Kombat 11 Questions From Twitter Nick Jonas and Kelly Clarkson Answer Singing Questions from Twitter Penn Jillette Answers Magic Questions From Twitter The Russo Brothers Answer Avengers: Endgame Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers Climbing Questions From Twitter Sloane Stephens Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 3 Astronaut Nicole Stott Answers Space Questions From Twitter Mark Cuban Answers Mogul Questions From Twitter Ubisoft's Alexander Karpazis Answers Rainbow Six Siege Questions From Twitter Marathon Champion Answers Running Questions From Twitter Ninja Answers Fortnite Questions From Twitter Cybersecurity Expert Answers Hacking Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Chris Answer Thanksgiving Questions From Twitter SuperM Answers K-Pop Questions From Twitter The Best of Tech Support: Ken Jeong, Bill Nye, Nicole Stott and More Twitter's Jack Dorsey Answers Twitter Questions From Twitter Jodie Whittaker Answers Doctor Who Questions From Twitter Astronomer Jill Tarter Answers Alien Questions From Twitter Tattoo Artist Bang Bang Answers More Tattoo Questions From Twitter Respawn Answers Apex Legends Questions From Twitter Michael Strahan Answers Super Bowl Questions From Twitter Dr. Martin Blaser Answers Coronavirus Questions From Twitter Scott Adkins Answers Martial Arts Training Questions From Twitter Psychiatrist Daniel Amen Answers Brain Questions From Twitter The Hamilton Cast Answers Hamilton Questions From Twitter Travis & Lyn-Z Pastrana Answer Stunt Questions From Twitter Mayim Bialik Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Zach King Answers TikTok Questions From Twitter Riot Games Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Aaron Sorkin Answers Screenwriting Questions From Twitter Survivorman Les Stroud Answers Survival Questions From Twitter Joe Manganiello Answers Dungeons & Dragons Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers Star Wars Questions From Twitter Wizards of the Coast Answer Magic: The Gathering Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers More Star Wars Questions From Twitter VFX Artist Answers Movie & TV VFX Questions From Twitter CrossFit Coach Answers CrossFit Questions From Twitter Yo-Yo Ma Answers Cello Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Cadaver Questions From Twitter Babish Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Jacob Collier Answers Music Theory Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers More Tolkien Questions From Twitter Wolfgang Puck Answers Restaurant Questions From Twitter Fast & Furious Car Expert Answers Car Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter Olympian Dominique Dawes Answers Gymnastics Questions From Twitter Allyson Felix Answers Track Questions From Twitter Dr. Michio Kaku Answers Physics Questions From Twitter Former NASA Astronaut Answers Space Questions From Twitter Surgeon Answers Surgery Questions From Twitter Beekeeper Answers Bee Questions From Twitter Michael Pollan Answers Psychedelics Questions From Twitter Ultramarathoner Answers Questions From Twitter Bug Expert Answers Insect Questions From Twitter Former Cult Member Answers Cult Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers MORE Dead Body Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers Poison Questions From Twitter Brewmaster Answers Beer Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Biology Questions From Twitter James Dyson Answers Design Questions From Twitter Dermatologist Answers Skin Questions From Twitter Dwyane Wade Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Baker Answers Baking Questions from Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Questions From Twitter Age Expert Answers Aging Questions From Twitter Fertility Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Biological Anthropologist Answers Love Questions From Twitter Mathematician Answers Math Questions From Twitter Statistician Answers Stats Questions From Twitter Sleep Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Botanist Answers Plant Questions From Twitter Ornithologist Answers Bird Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers MORE Rock Climbing Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers MORE Body Language Questions From Twitter Waste Expert Answers Garbage Questions From Twitter Garbage Boss Answers Trash Questions From Twitter J. Kenji López-Alt Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Veterinarian Answers Pet Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Gut Questions From Twitter Chemist Answers Chemistry Questions From Twitter Taste Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Paleontologist Answers Dinosaur Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers More Biology Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Even More Biology Questions From Twitter ER Doctor Answers Injury Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers More Poison Questions From Twitter Energy Expert Answers Energy Questions From Twitter BBQ Pitmaster Answers BBQ Questions From Twitter Neil Gaiman Answers Mythology Questions From Twitter Sushi Chef Answers Sushi Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers Tolkien Questions From Twitter Audiologist Answers Hearing Questions From Twitter Marine Biologist Answers Shark Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 4 John McEnroe Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Malcolm Gladwell Answers Research Questions From Twitter Financial Advisor Answers Money Questions From Twitter Stanford Computer Scientist Answers Coding Questions From Twitter Wildlife Vet Answers Wild Animal Questions From Twitter Climate Scientist Answers Earth Questions From Twitter Medical Doctor Answers Hormone Questions From Twitter James Hoffmann Answers Coffee Questions From Twitter Video Game Director Answers Questions From Twitter Robotics Professor Answers Robot Questions From Twitter Scam Fighters Answer Scam Questions From Twitter Forensics Expert Answers Crime Scene Questions From Twitter Chess Pro Answers Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter...Once Again Memory Champion Answers Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Answers Illusion Questions From Twitter Immunologist Answers Immune System Questions From Twitter Rocket Scientists Answer Questions From Twitter How Vinyl Records Are Made (with Third Man Records) Neurosurgeon Answers Brain Surgery Questions From Twitter Therapist Answers Relationship Questions From Twitter Polyphia's Tim Henson Answers Guitar Questions From Twitter Structural Engineer Answers City Questions From Twitter Harvard Professor Answers Happiness Questions From Twitter A.I. Expert Answers A.I. Questions From Twitter Pizza Chef Answers Pizza Questions From Twitter Former CIA Chief of Disguise Answers Spy Questions From Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Space Questions From Twitter Cannabis Scientist Answers Questions From Twitter Sommelier Answers Wine Questions From Twitter Mycologist Answers Mushroom Questions From Twitter Genndy Tartakovsky Answers Animation Questions From Twitter Pro Card Counter Answers Casino Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Lung Questions From Twitter Paul Hollywood & Prue Leith Answer Baking Questions From Twitter Geneticist Answers Genetics Questions From Twitter Sneaker Expert Jeff Staple Answers Sneaker Questions From Twitter 'The Points Guy' Brian Kelly Answers Travel Questions From Twitter Master Chef Answers Indian Food & Curry Questions From Twitter Archaeologist Answers Archaeology Questions From Twitter LegalEagle's Devin Stone Answers Law Questions From Twitter Todd McFarlane Answers Comics Questions From Twitter Reptile Expert Answers Reptile Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Burial Questions From Twitter Eye Doctor Answers Eye Questions From Twitter Computer Scientist Answers Computer Questions From Twitter Neurologist Answers Nerve Questions From Twitter Hacker Answers Penetration Test Questions From Twitter Nutritionist Answers Nutrition Questions From Twitter Experts Predict the Future of Technology, AI & Humanity Doctor Answers Blood Questions From Twitter Sports Statistician Answers Sports Math Questions From Twitter Shark Tank's Mark Cuban Answers Business Questions From Twitter Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Director Answers Video Game Questions From Twitter Criminologist Answers True Crime Questions From Twitter Physicist Answers Physics Questions From Twitter | Tech Support Chess Pro Answers More Questions From Twitter Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
