Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Sports Statistician Answers Sports Math Questions From Twitter About Released on 10/17/2023 I'm Dean Oliver, former assistant coach for the Washington Wizards and a statistical analyst for sports.
I'm here to answer your questions from the internet.
This is sports math support.
[gentle music] First up, @fwh1027, what is the most efficient shot in basketball? The most efficient shot in basketball is the layup.
Any shot around the rim.
Getting to the rim not only is a higher percentage shot, it will more likely get you to the foul line which players make at about 75 to 80%.
The second most important shot is any shot beyond the three point arc.
Anything out here? Shots out here are made at about 35%, but because of the extra point awarded for being beyond the arc they are more efficient.
@NBAADED, statistically speaking, who is better? Jordan or LeBron? Frankly Michael Jordan was probably a little bit better defender.
LeBron is a little bit better passer than Michael Jordan was.
LeBron adopted also the three point shot a lot earlier than Michael Jordan did, but all in all they are almost the same.
@Woumaxx asks what studies do you do to become a sports statistician? That is a good question.
This did not exist when I was a kid.
Having a career where you get to do math in sports is a great innovation of the 21st century.
That being said it's not the easiest thing to get into anymore.
In order to do it, you really need to know sports for sure.
Sometimes people forget that, but you also need to know things like programming with a language like Python.
You need to know things about statistics, basic statistics, or a little bit more advanced that will only help you.
Because this is an interdisciplinary job, you need to know how to communicate it.
You need to know how to communicate math to sports people and you need to know how to communicate sports to math people.
From Ravens_Realest, what is the most important quarterback stat? The longest one in existence is the passer rating.
That one goes back 50 years.
It is a very simple metric that just evaluates four categories of touchdowns, yards, completion percentage, and interceptions.
It's not great.
A better one is coming from ESPN, which is called QBR which accounts for what is more important in modern NFL which is the running quarterback, which is avoiding sacks.
The traditional stat that people probably latch onto the most is quarterback completion percentage, Of the more traditional stats completion percentage correlates the best with success, but it's still not as good as something like QBR.
@AhnRee_ asks, bro, why are there so many no hitters now? The bottom line for there being more no hitters is that over the last 10 to 15 years, batting averages are down.
There are multiple reasons for this.
One of them is the shift.
In baseball they allowed a shift of fielders to go basically wherever you wanted to.
When they studied the data, they knew that some players hit the ball in certain areas more so if you put more fielders in that area, you get more outs.
As of this season 2023, the shift was made illegal to limit some of the ability of a defense to shut down a hitter.
The other reason, probably they manage pitchers differently.
The pitchers don't go and throw a complete game nearly as much as they did so you're seeing a lot more combined no hitters.
20 years ago that wasn't happening nearly as much.
It was all one pitcher doing the whole thing.
When you have multiple pitchers, they come in, they're fresh, they have a better chance to shut down a hitter.
Moving on.
@MaxSportsStudio asks hypothetical, a player is fouled at the buzzer.
He gets to shoot two free throws.
His team is down by one.
Is the probability that he makes the second shot affected by the outcome of the first free throw? First of all, the first free throw is usually much harder.
Players haven't been able to dial in their depth perception.
There's also this thought that their heartbeat is probably a little bit faster because the action is kind of calming down.
Usually it's easier to make the ones after that, but in this situation where the pressure is on, players do react very differently under pressure and there have been studies that have shown free throw shooters who are under pressure, they do shoot worse by five to 10%.
@CucuyOnline asks does defense really win championships? In basketball in particular what you see is that offense carries teams through the regular season.
What happens when you get to the playoffs is the best teams know how to ramp up their defense.
They are playing better offensive teams, but they know how to strategically defend those teams, take away the best players.
That is the way in which you see defense winning championships.
Defense doesn't win championships on its own.
Next up, Quora User asks, how is Messi better than Ronaldo in stats? The best measure we have for soccer performance for individuals is goals.
It is not the best thing that could be developed but over the years that Messi and Ronaldo played, it is what we have.
@nicky_numbers asks, did you know that former Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter was a below average fielder? The numbers prove it.
Derek Jeter was not as good as his reputation because some of the stats said that he gave up a lot of extra runs on top of what other shortstops would do.
Won five gold gloves because when he got to a ball he was pretty good at making the right throw, making the right read, but his ability to get to the ball was much more limited.
His range was limited and that mattered a lot.
@Ktwizzle512, how exactly is an NFL spread calculated and what all goes into calculating the spread? There is a lot of mathematical calculation that goes into a spread including what players are gonna be available, where the game is gonna be played, whether the weather is gonna matter, wind, rain, all of those sorts of things.
Who the refereeing crew is going to be.
All of these things have tendencies for affecting the spread.
That is how an initial line can be set.
But what happens, because the NFL has bet so much, a lot of the gambling houses, is they just try to split the pot.
So at the end they're just trying to make sure they have 50% of the people on one side of line and 50% on the other side.
@elitedawg03 asked what is true shooting percentage? I've been hearing it, but what is the official way to calculate it? True shooting percentage is just total points scored by a player or a team divided by the shot attempts they've taken which is a combination of field goal attempts from the field and a fraction of their free throw attempts.
It's more representative of the actual contribution of a player because it captures how many points a player is getting from their field goal attempts.
So if they're shooting a lot from three, it's capturing that efficiency over someone who takes a lot of twos and it's capturing their ability to get to the foul line, which can be enormous for players like Jimmy Butler or Giannis or LeBron.
@AMiller10 asks when are stupid people going to realize that pitcher wins are a meaningless stat that shouldn't be used to decide anything? A pitcher win-loss record actually tells you something, which is winning and avoiding losing, but it doesn't get at all the details very well for what a pitcher is doing.
It doesn't get at their ability to throw strikes.
It doesn't get at their ability to limit the opposing team's hitters.
So it's missing important details but it's getting at something important.
@RellDMC, have running backs ever been less valued in NFL history? It is true right now that NFL running backs are being devalued, probably rightly so, whether they've gone past where they're getting devalued too much, I don't know.
The reason they are getting devalued is because we're recognizing that the offensive line matters a lot in how many yards those running backs get.
So the credit that those guys used to get as superstars, they're not getting quite as much of as they used to.
So yes, they are getting devalued and probably rightly so.
Moving on.
@KingDJ_5297, I'm supposed to believe that advanced stats work for the NBA? Yes, advanced stats work for the NBA probably better than other sports.
For instance, there are team offensive ratings and team defensive ratings which are how many points a team scores and allows per 100 possessions.
That is a very accurate representation of how good an offense or a defense is.
The NFL has maybe 14 drives for a team in a game.
Baseball has maybe 40 at bats.
In basketball, you have probably 80 possessions where you have the best players able to touch the ball and able to shoot the ball, so you get a very good representation of how good teams are.
@dawblack, you can measure nearly everything statistically.
How do you statistically measure an offensive guard? In football I presume? In the NFL we have an immense amount of data that tracks where all the players are on the field at every point in time, which direction they're facing and so forth.
With all of this data now you can actually measure how well offensive guards for instance, block, how well can they win the block against a defensive player, keeping that defensive player from getting either to a running back or to a quarterback.
From I.C. @nola_legend, assists are the most overrated stats in basketball.
When will people understand this? Assists in the NBA are probably given out too easily.
They give them for very simple passes but they also give them for more difficult passes.
The players who get a lot of the easy assists are probably overrated, but the ones who have the passes for the alley oops, for the layups, the ones in transition, those are very valuable.
I wouldn't call them overrated as a stat, but I would say that some of the players who get assists are overrated.
@RZN2BLV asks did Bill James and Billy Beane change the game of baseball? Bill James did it by writing a book, multiple books in fact called the Baseball Abstracts, which got read by a lot of fans, and then eventually by people working in baseball like the general manager of the Oakland A's Billy Beane.
The game of baseball, like a lot of sports actually is about identifying the best players and how to put them in the best position to succeed.
What they used is data to help make those decisions.
A particular statistic that they recognized as undervalued was walks or on-base percentage.
The fact that walks get you on base on top of getting a base hit is something that was not appreciated by traditional major league baseball.
They did that behind the scenes and gained a major advantage.
Next up, RedditUser360 asks what statistics are most important in the NBA? It's not things like points and rebounds and turnovers and assists.
It is offensive rating and defensive rating.
Points a team scores and allows per a hundred possessions.
Beyond that, when you're trying to understand what a team is doing to be efficient on either side of the basketball, most important things are what call the four factors and the four factors are how well you shoot, which is an effective field goal percentage, which weights three point shots more than two point shots.
A turnover percentage, an offensive rebounding percentage, and then how often you get to the line.
Those four things will tell you why an offense or a defense is efficient.
@VaguelyArtistic, if the triangle is such a simple shape why can't anyone explain the triangle offense? I'm not going to explain the triangle offense here.
I can tell you that the triangle offense is successful only with a couple coaches frankly.
It was successful with Phil Jackson with the Bulls and with the Lakers.
You are creating good shots for good players and good shots for even average players who are there to set screens and just play off the ball and what it does is it relies upon the strengths of the players themselves to make decisions.
This is a good one.
@ehoichi, is red zone efficiency a good efficiency stat? The red zone efficiency is how well an offense does within the last 20 yards of the field.
Red zone efficiency is useful.
It is predictive to some degree and it explains the success of teams.
Teams that are very good at it, they will be better offenses and teams that are bad, they will be worse.
But is it perfect? No, jst like pretty much every other NFL statistic.
Moving on.
@ItsAColeWorld26 asks what's the most important stat for a receiver? Catches, if you're gonna use very simple metrics are the best representation of a receiver's ability.
It is not the best metric when you start including the analytical stats.
We have a lot better information on drops for instance, for receivers, how difficult the catch is, where the ball was, whether they had to pull it in.
There are better stats for that but it's a complex series of them.
There's not a simple metric at this point for overall wide receiver ability.
That's all the questions we have for sports math.
Till next time.
Gordon Ramsay Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers Medical Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Jeff Kaplan Answers Overwatch Questions From Twitter Nick Offerman Answers Woodworking Questions From Twitter Bungie's Luke Smith Answers Destiny Questions From Twitter Jackie Chan & Olivia Munn Answer Martial Arts Questions From Twitter Scott Kelly Answers Astronaut Questions From Twitter LaVar Ball Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Dillon Francis Answers DJ Questions From Twitter Tony Hawk Answers Skateboarding Questions From Twitter Jerry Rice Answers Football Questions From Twitter Garry Kasparov Answers Chess Questions From Twitter U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Athletes Answer Olympics Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Anil Seth Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Ben Brode Answers Hearthstone Questions From Twitter John Cena Answers Wrestling Questions From Twitter The Slow Mo Guys Answer Slow Motion Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Even More Science Questions From Twitter James Cameron Answers Sci-Fi Questions From Twitter Best of Tech Support: Bill Nye, Neil DeGrasse Tyson and More Answer Science Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers Even More League of Legends Questions from Twitter PlayerUnknown Answers PUBG Questions From Twitter Liza Koshy, Markiplier, Rhett & Link, and Hannah Hart Answer YouTube Creator Questions From Twitter NCT 127 Answer K-Pop Questions From Twitter Neil deGrasse Tyson Answers Science Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers More Medical Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Claire Answer Cooking Questions From Twitter Bang Bang Answers Tattoo Questions From Twitter Ed Boon Answers Mortal Kombat 11 Questions From Twitter Nick Jonas and Kelly Clarkson Answer Singing Questions from Twitter Penn Jillette Answers Magic Questions From Twitter The Russo Brothers Answer Avengers: Endgame Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers Climbing Questions From Twitter Sloane Stephens Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 3 Astronaut Nicole Stott Answers Space Questions From Twitter Mark Cuban Answers Mogul Questions From Twitter Ubisoft's Alexander Karpazis Answers Rainbow Six Siege Questions From Twitter Marathon Champion Answers Running Questions From Twitter Ninja Answers Fortnite Questions From Twitter Cybersecurity Expert Answers Hacking Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Chris Answer Thanksgiving Questions From Twitter SuperM Answers K-Pop Questions From Twitter The Best of Tech Support: Ken Jeong, Bill Nye, Nicole Stott and More Twitter's Jack Dorsey Answers Twitter Questions From Twitter Jodie Whittaker Answers Doctor Who Questions From Twitter Astronomer Jill Tarter Answers Alien Questions From Twitter Tattoo Artist Bang Bang Answers More Tattoo Questions From Twitter Respawn Answers Apex Legends Questions From Twitter Michael Strahan Answers Super Bowl Questions From Twitter Dr. Martin Blaser Answers Coronavirus Questions From Twitter Scott Adkins Answers Martial Arts Training Questions From Twitter Psychiatrist Daniel Amen Answers Brain Questions From Twitter The Hamilton Cast Answers Hamilton Questions From Twitter Travis & Lyn-Z Pastrana Answer Stunt Questions From Twitter Mayim Bialik Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Zach King Answers TikTok Questions From Twitter Riot Games Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Aaron Sorkin Answers Screenwriting Questions From Twitter Survivorman Les Stroud Answers Survival Questions From Twitter Joe Manganiello Answers Dungeons & Dragons Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers Star Wars Questions From Twitter Wizards of the Coast Answer Magic: The Gathering Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers More Star Wars Questions From Twitter VFX Artist Answers Movie & TV VFX Questions From Twitter CrossFit Coach Answers CrossFit Questions From Twitter Yo-Yo Ma Answers Cello Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Cadaver Questions From Twitter Babish Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Jacob Collier Answers Music Theory Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers More Tolkien Questions From Twitter Wolfgang Puck Answers Restaurant Questions From Twitter Fast & Furious Car Expert Answers Car Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter Olympian Dominique Dawes Answers Gymnastics Questions From Twitter Allyson Felix Answers Track Questions From Twitter Dr. Michio Kaku Answers Physics Questions From Twitter Former NASA Astronaut Answers Space Questions From Twitter Surgeon Answers Surgery Questions From Twitter Beekeeper Answers Bee Questions From Twitter Michael Pollan Answers Psychedelics Questions From Twitter Ultramarathoner Answers Questions From Twitter Bug Expert Answers Insect Questions From Twitter Former Cult Member Answers Cult Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers MORE Dead Body Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers Poison Questions From Twitter Brewmaster Answers Beer Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Biology Questions From Twitter James Dyson Answers Design Questions From Twitter Dermatologist Answers Skin Questions From Twitter Dwyane Wade Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Baker Answers Baking Questions from Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Questions From Twitter Age Expert Answers Aging Questions From Twitter Fertility Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Biological Anthropologist Answers Love Questions From Twitter Mathematician Answers Math Questions From Twitter Statistician Answers Stats Questions From Twitter Sleep Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Botanist Answers Plant Questions From Twitter Ornithologist Answers Bird Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers MORE Rock Climbing Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers MORE Body Language Questions From Twitter Waste Expert Answers Garbage Questions From Twitter Garbage Boss Answers Trash Questions From Twitter J. Kenji López-Alt Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Veterinarian Answers Pet Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Gut Questions From Twitter Chemist Answers Chemistry Questions From Twitter Taste Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Paleontologist Answers Dinosaur Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers More Biology Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Even More Biology Questions From Twitter ER Doctor Answers Injury Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers More Poison Questions From Twitter Energy Expert Answers Energy Questions From Twitter BBQ Pitmaster Answers BBQ Questions From Twitter Neil Gaiman Answers Mythology Questions From Twitter Sushi Chef Answers Sushi Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers Tolkien Questions From Twitter Audiologist Answers Hearing Questions From Twitter Marine Biologist Answers Shark Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 4 John McEnroe Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Malcolm Gladwell Answers Research Questions From Twitter Financial Advisor Answers Money Questions From Twitter Stanford Computer Scientist Answers Coding Questions From Twitter Wildlife Vet Answers Wild Animal Questions From Twitter Climate Scientist Answers Earth Questions From Twitter Medical Doctor Answers Hormone Questions From Twitter James Hoffmann Answers Coffee Questions From Twitter Video Game Director Answers Questions From Twitter Robotics Professor Answers Robot Questions From Twitter Scam Fighters Answer Scam Questions From Twitter Forensics Expert Answers Crime Scene Questions From Twitter Chess Pro Answers Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter...Once Again Memory Champion Answers Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Answers Illusion Questions From Twitter Immunologist Answers Immune System Questions From Twitter Rocket Scientists Answer Questions From Twitter How Vinyl Records Are Made (with Third Man Records) Neurosurgeon Answers Brain Surgery Questions From Twitter Therapist Answers Relationship Questions From Twitter Polyphia's Tim Henson Answers Guitar Questions From Twitter Structural Engineer Answers City Questions From Twitter Harvard Professor Answers Happiness Questions From Twitter A.I. Expert Answers A.I. Questions From Twitter Pizza Chef Answers Pizza Questions From Twitter Former CIA Chief of Disguise Answers Spy Questions From Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Space Questions From Twitter Cannabis Scientist Answers Questions From Twitter Sommelier Answers Wine Questions From Twitter Mycologist Answers Mushroom Questions From Twitter Genndy Tartakovsky Answers Animation Questions From Twitter Pro Card Counter Answers Casino Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Lung Questions From Twitter Paul Hollywood & Prue Leith Answer Baking Questions From Twitter Geneticist Answers Genetics Questions From Twitter Sneaker Expert Jeff Staple Answers Sneaker Questions From Twitter 'The Points Guy' Brian Kelly Answers Travel Questions From Twitter Master Chef Answers Indian Food & Curry Questions From Twitter Archaeologist Answers Archaeology Questions From Twitter LegalEagle's Devin Stone Answers Law Questions From Twitter Todd McFarlane Answers Comics Questions From Twitter Reptile Expert Answers Reptile Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Burial Questions From Twitter Eye Doctor Answers Eye Questions From Twitter Computer Scientist Answers Computer Questions From Twitter Neurologist Answers Nerve Questions From Twitter Hacker Answers Penetration Test Questions From Twitter Nutritionist Answers Nutrition Questions From Twitter Experts Predict the Future of Technology, AI & Humanity Doctor Answers Blood Questions From Twitter Sports Statistician Answers Sports Math Questions From Twitter Shark Tank's Mark Cuban Answers Business Questions From Twitter Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Director Answers Video Game Questions From Twitter Criminologist Answers True Crime Questions From Twitter Physicist Answers Physics Questions From Twitter | Tech Support Chess Pro Answers More Questions From Twitter Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
