Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Experts Predict the Future of Technology, AI & Humanity About Released on 10/06/2023 If space is expanding, WTF is surrounding space for it to expand into? It doesn't expand into anything, everything is just spreading apart, and what keeps it from spreading apart are sources of gravity, like stars and planets.
Like, where's it all going into? What does this even mean? Put it simply, nobody knows, but maybe you'll be the astronomer that figures it out.
Whoa.
[computer mouse clicking] [upbeat music] From Shubhgautam52, Will AI replace lawyers? You probably don't want an AI lawyer anytime soon.
A lawyer is not just simply a machine that knows what the law is.
A lawyer is a person with, theoretically, years of expertise that can help you strategically to achieve your goals, and that's not something that AI is well-positioned to replace anytime soon.
What I suspect is going to happen is that AI is going to make a lot of the drudgery of practicing law way easier and it will allow lawyers to focus on the really value-add stuff and allow them to think strategically and to better represent their clients in the future, so I welcome our AI overlords.
The next question comes from Hassan Babaji.
Can light bend around corners? If yes or no, give one reason.
Yes, light can bend around corners.
In fact, that's why we have glass inside your glasses.
When light goes into glass, it slows down slightly.
Because it slows down, it deviates from a straight line, and that's why we have your glasses, telescopes, microscopes, because glass bends light.
Also, gravity can bend light, as Einstein showed us, and we can actually see the bending of light as it goes around a galaxy.
Then the next question is, can you bend light completely around an object so the object becomes invisible? And the answer is yes.
It's well within the laws of physics that if you could govern the atomic structure of glass, then light would bend in a way such that it would completely go around an object so anything inside that object becomes invisible.
One day, we will build a metamaterial out of nanotechnology that will bend visible light so that anything inside that capsule will become invisible.
Harry Potter, watch out.
@EggSoph asks, What happens when you travel faster than the speed of light? Well, you can't.
You can't travel faster than the speed of light.
I'm sorry. You just can't.
You see, as you get faster and faster, as you approach the speed of light, you have more energy, and in relativity, energy takes more work to accelerate, so you end up requiring an infinite amount of energy in order to travel faster than the speed of light, and so it's just forbidden.
@NinoClutch asks, Spider-Man is so raw.
Maybe we should try that DNA, biotech, cross-gene splicing.
Well, I'm not sure we're gonna see Spider-Man anytime soon, but there is a lot of interest from biotech companies and academic labs to understand spider silk, which is five times stronger than steel.
Spider silk is very biocompatible, very good for wound healing, especially for wounds of the eye and the brain, and there's been many efforts to engineer spider silk outside of spiders, to make it in a recombinant way, meaning not in spiders, but in other organisms like bacteria or plants.
Probably the best known example of a recombinant protein is insulin.
This has helped millions of people across the last four decades since the first insulin was produced in bacteria.
Next question. What do you think? How will our future cities look like? A, B, or C? Any highly advanced city is going to need to make sure that there is an integration of green spaces, not only for our oxygen, but just for our enjoyment and wellbeing.
The more that we get rid of our natural green spaces, the less we are able to have that oxygen naturally generated in our environment.
I see that they're all high, vertical structures, and that really speaks to the fact that we're gonna need to get more and more comfortable with building up, 'cause building out isn't gonna always be an option @PristineMartian asks, How far away is superhuman intelligence with a brain-computer interface? Currently, we are fairly close to having brain-computer interfaces really help a process called neuroplasticity in the brain, and neuroplasticity is the brain's normal process to learn and adapt to the outside world.
I think that's something that we're going to likely see within the next several years.
The idea of having a Bluetooth implant in the brain that helps you Google something on the fly, we are talking decades upon decades before we would see something like that occurring.
@SEO_Chase, Do you think robots will one day take over all of our jobs? The real benefit of robots is taking over the three Ds: the dull, dirty, and dangerous jobs that we probably don't want human beings to be doing anyway.
People are working on underwater robots that can detect underwater landmines, some people have worked on robots that can go into nuclear facilities after an accident and shut off different valves, but I do hope that robots are able to make people better at their jobs and free people up to do things that they're actually good at and that they actually want to do.
Nick asks, Will computer programming jobs be taken over by AI within the next five to 10 years? This is such a frequently asked question nowadays, and I don't think the answer will be yes, and I think we've seen evidence of this already in that early on, when people were creating websites, they were literally writing out code in a language called HTML by hand, but then, of course, software came along, tools like Dreamweaver that you could download on your own computer, that would generate some of that same code for you.
More recently though, now, you can just sign up for websites like Squarespace and Wix and others, whereby click, click, click, and the website is generated for you.
So I dare say, certainly in some domains, that AI is really just an evolution of that trend, and it hasn't put humans out of business as much as it has made you and I much more productive.
AI, I think, and the ability soon to be able to program with natural language, is just gonna enhance what you and I can already do logically, but much more mechanically, and I think too, it's worth considering that there's just so many bugs or mistakes in software in the world and there's so many features that humans wish existed in products present and future that our to-do list, so to speak, is way longer than we'll ever have time to finish in our lifetimes, and so I think the prospect of having an artificial intelligence boost our productivity and work alongside us, so to speak, as we try to solve problems is just gonna mean that you and I and the world together can solve so many more problems and move forward together at an even faster rate.
@SmokeAwayyy asks, What is the best case scenario for AI? Well, the reason I work on AI is because I think it could revolutionize science and technologies, but actually, biological science.
Biology is really complicated.
You have something like 20,000 genes and they make something like 100,000 or 1,000,000 different proteins.
AI could help us make much better solutions for medicine.
We have things like Alzheimer's.
We've been working for 50 years.
We don't have a good answer.
AI could probably help us, if we had a better AI, help us figure out how the brain works.
That would be awesome! AI could help us with climate change by helping us build better materials.
Another case, I think, is elder care robots.
So we are getting to a point where we have a lot more elderly people than young people.
If we could have robots that are smart enough and trustworthy enough that they could really take care of the elderly people, I think that would be a big win.
Last case is tutors.
Of course, people are using ChatGPT as a tutor, but you could imagine really fantastic, individualized tutoring once the systems understand the people who are learning better can help figure out, like, where are they having a problem.
@StartSOLE asks, How will the human species evolve? The future of our species is a big question, and open to question, but we know a lot about human evolution from looking at the past, and the story of human evolution is really, in many ways, the story of brain size, and each time we've seen some increase in the capacity of our brains, biologists and anthropologists have associated that with some change in human behavior that allowed us to gain more calories, because brain tissue is what physiologists call metabolically expensive.
It takes a lot of fuel to run a brain.
As many as 20% of our daily calories go to fuel something that's only 2% of our body weight.
So if you want a bigger brain, you're going to have to have more calories to run it, and we've seen that through time as our species has adopted new characteristics, new traits, new habits, that have given us more to eat.
Those things include tool use and social behaviors and cooking the food.
So now, we are at a period of time where food, for many people, is plentiful, calories are plentiful.
One question for future biologists then will be, how did that change the human brain? @Interrobang_2, Will humanity ever leave the solar system? Probably not, but some future species, maybe, you know.
Humanity may evolve and change where we couldn't breed with ourselves.
That species may leave the solar system.
Not sure where they would go or what they'd do.
We might send an instrument, a spacecraft, to another star system.
I could imagine that easily.
We'd use a solar sail and we'd give it a push with a laser.
Be cool.
[Bill making a buzzing noise] Except it'd be in space. There wouldn't be any sound.
It would just be.
[computer mouse clicking] [upbeat music] Gordon Ramsay Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers Medical Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Jeff Kaplan Answers Overwatch Questions From Twitter Nick Offerman Answers Woodworking Questions From Twitter Bungie's Luke Smith Answers Destiny Questions From Twitter Jackie Chan & Olivia Munn Answer Martial Arts Questions From Twitter Scott Kelly Answers Astronaut Questions From Twitter LaVar Ball Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Dillon Francis Answers DJ Questions From Twitter Tony Hawk Answers Skateboarding Questions From Twitter Jerry Rice Answers Football Questions From Twitter Garry Kasparov Answers Chess Questions From Twitter U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Athletes Answer Olympics Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Anil Seth Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Ben Brode Answers Hearthstone Questions From Twitter John Cena Answers Wrestling Questions From Twitter The Slow Mo Guys Answer Slow Motion Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Even More Science Questions From Twitter James Cameron Answers Sci-Fi Questions From Twitter Best of Tech Support: Bill Nye, Neil DeGrasse Tyson and More Answer Science Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers Even More League of Legends Questions from Twitter PlayerUnknown Answers PUBG Questions From Twitter Liza Koshy, Markiplier, Rhett & Link, and Hannah Hart Answer YouTube Creator Questions From Twitter NCT 127 Answer K-Pop Questions From Twitter Neil deGrasse Tyson Answers Science Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers More Medical Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Claire Answer Cooking Questions From Twitter Bang Bang Answers Tattoo Questions From Twitter Ed Boon Answers Mortal Kombat 11 Questions From Twitter Nick Jonas and Kelly Clarkson Answer Singing Questions from Twitter Penn Jillette Answers Magic Questions From Twitter The Russo Brothers Answer Avengers: Endgame Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers Climbing Questions From Twitter Sloane Stephens Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 3 Astronaut Nicole Stott Answers Space Questions From Twitter Mark Cuban Answers Mogul Questions From Twitter Ubisoft's Alexander Karpazis Answers Rainbow Six Siege Questions From Twitter Marathon Champion Answers Running Questions From Twitter Ninja Answers Fortnite Questions From Twitter Cybersecurity Expert Answers Hacking Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Chris Answer Thanksgiving Questions From Twitter SuperM Answers K-Pop Questions From Twitter The Best of Tech Support: Ken Jeong, Bill Nye, Nicole Stott and More Twitter's Jack Dorsey Answers Twitter Questions From Twitter Jodie Whittaker Answers Doctor Who Questions From Twitter Astronomer Jill Tarter Answers Alien Questions From Twitter Tattoo Artist Bang Bang Answers More Tattoo Questions From Twitter Respawn Answers Apex Legends Questions From Twitter Michael Strahan Answers Super Bowl Questions From Twitter Dr. Martin Blaser Answers Coronavirus Questions From Twitter Scott Adkins Answers Martial Arts Training Questions From Twitter Psychiatrist Daniel Amen Answers Brain Questions From Twitter The Hamilton Cast Answers Hamilton Questions From Twitter Travis & Lyn-Z Pastrana Answer Stunt Questions From Twitter Mayim Bialik Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Zach King Answers TikTok Questions From Twitter Riot Games Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Aaron Sorkin Answers Screenwriting Questions From Twitter Survivorman Les Stroud Answers Survival Questions From Twitter Joe Manganiello Answers Dungeons & Dragons Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers Star Wars Questions From Twitter Wizards of the Coast Answer Magic: The Gathering Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers More Star Wars Questions From Twitter VFX Artist Answers Movie & TV VFX Questions From Twitter CrossFit Coach Answers CrossFit Questions From Twitter Yo-Yo Ma Answers Cello Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Cadaver Questions From Twitter Babish Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Jacob Collier Answers Music Theory Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers More Tolkien Questions From Twitter Wolfgang Puck Answers Restaurant Questions From Twitter Fast & Furious Car Expert Answers Car Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter Olympian Dominique Dawes Answers Gymnastics Questions From Twitter Allyson Felix Answers Track Questions From Twitter Dr. Michio Kaku Answers Physics Questions From Twitter Former NASA Astronaut Answers Space Questions From Twitter Surgeon Answers Surgery Questions From Twitter Beekeeper Answers Bee Questions From Twitter Michael Pollan Answers Psychedelics Questions From Twitter Ultramarathoner Answers Questions From Twitter Bug Expert Answers Insect Questions From Twitter Former Cult Member Answers Cult Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers MORE Dead Body Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers Poison Questions From Twitter Brewmaster Answers Beer Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Biology Questions From Twitter James Dyson Answers Design Questions From Twitter Dermatologist Answers Skin Questions From Twitter Dwyane Wade Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Baker Answers Baking Questions from Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Questions From Twitter Age Expert Answers Aging Questions From Twitter Fertility Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Biological Anthropologist Answers Love Questions From Twitter Mathematician Answers Math Questions From Twitter Statistician Answers Stats Questions From Twitter Sleep Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Botanist Answers Plant Questions From Twitter Ornithologist Answers Bird Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers MORE Rock Climbing Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers MORE Body Language Questions From Twitter Waste Expert Answers Garbage Questions From Twitter Garbage Boss Answers Trash Questions From Twitter J. Kenji López-Alt Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Veterinarian Answers Pet Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Gut Questions From Twitter Chemist Answers Chemistry Questions From Twitter Taste Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Paleontologist Answers Dinosaur Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers More Biology Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Even More Biology Questions From Twitter ER Doctor Answers Injury Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers More Poison Questions From Twitter Energy Expert Answers Energy Questions From Twitter BBQ Pitmaster Answers BBQ Questions From Twitter Neil Gaiman Answers Mythology Questions From Twitter Sushi Chef Answers Sushi Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers Tolkien Questions From Twitter Audiologist Answers Hearing Questions From Twitter Marine Biologist Answers Shark Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 4 John McEnroe Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Malcolm Gladwell Answers Research Questions From Twitter Financial Advisor Answers Money Questions From Twitter Stanford Computer Scientist Answers Coding Questions From Twitter Wildlife Vet Answers Wild Animal Questions From Twitter Climate Scientist Answers Earth Questions From Twitter Medical Doctor Answers Hormone Questions From Twitter James Hoffmann Answers Coffee Questions From Twitter Video Game Director Answers Questions From Twitter Robotics Professor Answers Robot Questions From Twitter Scam Fighters Answer Scam Questions From Twitter Forensics Expert Answers Crime Scene Questions From Twitter Chess Pro Answers Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter...Once Again Memory Champion Answers Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Answers Illusion Questions From Twitter Immunologist Answers Immune System Questions From Twitter Rocket Scientists Answer Questions From Twitter How Vinyl Records Are Made (with Third Man Records) Neurosurgeon Answers Brain Surgery Questions From Twitter Therapist Answers Relationship Questions From Twitter Polyphia's Tim Henson Answers Guitar Questions From Twitter Structural Engineer Answers City Questions From Twitter Harvard Professor Answers Happiness Questions From Twitter A.I. Expert Answers A.I. Questions From Twitter Pizza Chef Answers Pizza Questions From Twitter Former CIA Chief of Disguise Answers Spy Questions From Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Space Questions From Twitter Cannabis Scientist Answers Questions From Twitter Sommelier Answers Wine Questions From Twitter Mycologist Answers Mushroom Questions From Twitter Genndy Tartakovsky Answers Animation Questions From Twitter Pro Card Counter Answers Casino Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Lung Questions From Twitter Paul Hollywood & Prue Leith Answer Baking Questions From Twitter Geneticist Answers Genetics Questions From Twitter Sneaker Expert Jeff Staple Answers Sneaker Questions From Twitter 'The Points Guy' Brian Kelly Answers Travel Questions From Twitter Master Chef Answers Indian Food & Curry Questions From Twitter Archaeologist Answers Archaeology Questions From Twitter LegalEagle's Devin Stone Answers Law Questions From Twitter Todd McFarlane Answers Comics Questions From Twitter Reptile Expert Answers Reptile Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Burial Questions From Twitter Eye Doctor Answers Eye Questions From Twitter Computer Scientist Answers Computer Questions From Twitter Neurologist Answers Nerve Questions From Twitter Hacker Answers Penetration Test Questions From Twitter Nutritionist Answers Nutrition Questions From Twitter Experts Predict the Future of Technology, AI & Humanity Doctor Answers Blood Questions From Twitter Sports Statistician Answers Sports Math Questions From Twitter Shark Tank's Mark Cuban Answers Business Questions From Twitter Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Director Answers Video Game Questions From Twitter Criminologist Answers True Crime Questions From Twitter Physicist Answers Physics Questions From Twitter | Tech Support Chess Pro Answers More Questions From Twitter Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
