Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Shark Tank's Mark Cuban Answers Business Questions From Twitter About Released on 10/25/2023 I'm Mark Cuban.
Let's answer some questions from the internet.
This is Mogul Support.
[upbeat music] atYoung EntrepHub, What will be your best advice to those who are thinking of leaving their full-time jobs to become a full-time entrepreneur? Save your money first.
Don't just leave unless you know what the hell you're doing.
We hear all these stories about all these people who quit their jobs, started a company and made all this money.
What you don't hear are the stories of the people who quit their jobs, started a company and failed miserably and are now working at a job they hate.
Before you quit, be prepared.
Know what you're doing.
Save your money.
Have at least six months to live off if you can, and then maybe you're ready to start your business.
atAlanBramley, Question, do billionaires create jobs?: The answer is no.
Entrepreneurs create jobs.
I'm an entrepreneur and I do my best to create jobs but the reality is, in order to become a billionaire the one thing you have to have is luck.
Any billionaire who tells you they could just do it again, no.
You have to be lucky.
Maybe you have a rich parent.
Question I get asked a lot is should billionaires pay more in taxes? Fuck yeah, we should pay more in taxes.
I would not be in this position without this country because nothing happens, that's great, whether it's healthcare, teachers, roads, you name it, without people paying their taxes.
It may be painful when you write that big check but just think about how you got there.
One of the most patriotic things that you can do when you're wealthy is pay your motherfucking taxes.
atJCBAYC, You have six months to make as much money as possible.
All you have to start with is a phone and $500 in cash.
What are you doing? JCBAYC, that is the best question I have ever been asked in my entire adult life.
I am really, really, really good at sales.
I'm gonna find a sales job because I already know that if I'm onto my last $500 and all I have is a phone, I am going to get that job and I'm gonna learn more about that industry than anybody on the planet.
And I'm gonna set a commission as high as I possibly can.
And three months in when I've demonstrated that I am the best salesperson in the history of that company, I'm gonna walk into my boss's office and I'm gonna tell 'em or her, You're either gonna pay me this amount of money to keep me or I'm gonna start my own business selling this stuff.
That is exactly what I would do.
Everything always goes back to sales no matter what.
atanjain_1, If you buy shares of a sports team, is it a gamble or an investment? It's a gamble because you're a minority shareholder.
You have no rights.
Atmike25748592x, Question. Is the customer always right? No. The customer is rarely right.
That doesn't mean you don't have to keep them happy.
Do customers make choices? Of course they make choices.
We're all customers.
We know how we choose what we buy buy and what we don't buy.
But the reality is, you don't spend a minute of your day wondering what the next product should be at 7/11, do you? The customer is not the one who comes up with the ideas.
It's the entrepreneur that comes up with the ideas.
Ed Jameis wants to know, What are some great businesses that people don't realize? I'm gonna tell you a couple easy off the top of my head that if I wanted to start a company I would seriously look at this.
Number one, Alexa.
Alexa has so many capabilities and so many people have them but they have no idea how to use any of the programming or scripting capabilities of Alexa.
You can go and start a business where you could go to your neighbors, to car dealerships, to businesses and show them for 50 bucks an hour or more, how to use their Alexa in their homes to save energy, to save time in their businesses.
And two, that leads to the same thing happening with large language models like Chat GPT.
There's new features coming out in Chat GPT and its competitors every single month.
So if you just get involved and stay ahead, you're gonna be the person in demand selling your services on how to prompt Chat GPT to help a business or even to tutor kids on how to best use it for school.
Atcjnimod_is_back, If you could change one thing about the sports industry, college or pro, what would you change? Dumb question.
I'd change the officiating.
atashcryptoreal, You think crypto is dead, yes or no? No. Hell no.
But I do think crypto has some problems.
Number one, most people when they think crypto, they think speculation.
That's not what crypto's really about.
Number two, crypto is really about creating new applications that make things better and easier.
What crypto is missing is that one application that grandma really wants to use.
Think back to the iPhone.
It came out in 2007, but it wasn't until the best apps like Instagram and Snapchat and Facebook went mobile, that the app store and the iPhone really took off.
Crypto is still waiting for its Instagram moment.
It won't be all that much longer where we'll be able to use an NFT as a ticket.
Once the ticket is resold, we don't make a penny.
The scalpers make all the money.
If that ticket was an NFT and it will be in the future, every time it's resold the original ticket holder can make some money, the team can make some money.
You can't do that with physical tickets.
You can't do that with traditional digital transfer.
You can do that when you turn it into crypto or an NFT.
When that happens, crypto go up.
Atblessin91077312, Why do most businesses fail? Number one, sales.
No business has ever succeeded without sales.
Period. End of story.
Number two, preparation.
When you go to start a business, have you done all the homework to know about your industry, your competition, your products, the profitability, your customer base, your demographics? You need to know these things.
Three, effort.
It is not easy starting and running a business, it's hard.
If it was easy, everybody would do it.
And four, brains.
You gotta be smart.
You gotta learn this stuff.
You gotta put in the effort.
You have to be curious in order to be successful at business.
You do these four things, blessing and you'll be okay.
Company doesn't do them.
They're in deep trouble.
atGhost93_X, Everybody losing money in NFTs.
Why are you still here? Lol.
I got a handy dandy graph.
This is the NFT market and this is the volume of sales.
Basically, it sucks.
You know how many other industries have sucked? There was a time after the internet stock market crashed where Amazon was selling for $5 a share.
Microsoft was selling for hundredths of what they sell right now.
Have you ever been in the trading card industry? That Mickey Mantle card that, you know, Steph Curry card goes up, goes down, go up, go down.
The same thing is happening to NFTs.
Now, there are some people that would tell you that this is the best time if you're an NFT collector to buy an NFT.
I'm not gonna tell you what you should or shouldn't do other than to say with NFTs the best time to buy is when you're a collector and you love the NFT.
Don't buy to speculate.
I'm gonna say it to you for the people in the back.
Don't speculate.
Yeah. You know what happens to speculators? They get their ass handed to them.
I can stare at my mutant punk all day long 'cause I collected it.
I'm not paying attention to all the things that happen on a day-to-day basis.
And you shouldn't either because someday we're gonna turn around and you know what you're gonna say to yourself? You're gonna say to yourself, I should have bought those damn NFTs when they were next to nothing, atTamaraShahan, What's something you wish your younger self knew before starting a business? I wish I would've known to respect the people around me and to be nice to the people around me that worked for me more.
Because it's stressful starting a business.
And I think too often I took that stress out on the people around me.
And that was a mistake.
atErnestErnst4, Name image likeness. You get paid for that? Dear God, wat is wrong with the NCAA? Ernest, you just busted your ass for the first 17, 18 years of your life to be great at something.
You get recruited by a school and somebody there wants to pay you for your name, image, and likeness.
Now, if that same kid was a violinist and they wanted to pay them to do an ad for violins you'd be like, Yeah.
When an athlete makes it to the top at their level and advertiser or sponsor wants to pay them, yeah, let them earn the rewards of their efforts, Ernst.
NIL. Hell yeah.
Atbecomingamirror, Who is the best shark on 'Shark Tank' and why is it Mark Cuban? I'm the best shark on Shark Tank 'cause I've been there.
I've been broke, I've been fired, started a business with nothing.
Built a business into something.
So when you're on that carpet pitching to us not only am I thinking to myself, will I invest but I'm also trying to come up with a way that I can help that entrepreneur because I know the challenge, the pain, the anxiety of running a business.
And if I can make your life a little bit easier with a good idea, that's what I'm gonna do.
Atturner_thinks, What is a business buzzword that annoys you the most? I'll go first. Disruptor.
Cohort.
There's no reason to ever use the word cohort when you can use the word group.
A cohort is a group of people.
Say group, you sound stupid when you use the word cohort because you're trying to sound smart.
Always use the simpler word.
Atbashterminal,Can anyone explain in layman terms what is series A, B, C, D funding? I don't know why people apply these letters.
It's just a chronological order in which you raise money.
That's it.
Pre-seed, seed, series A, series B, series C, series D.
That's it.
It can come from anybody, come from mom, it can come from dad, it can come from your aunt, your uncle, a venture capitalist.
What is venture capital? Venture capital is a vulture that sits in an office telling you how smart they are and how they're gonna give you money in exchange for too much of your company to give you too little support to end up trying to push you to do things that you don't wanna do just so they can get their money back.
But other than that, I have no problem with them.
Atcwaring, What is the most common mistake you see entrepreneurs make? They focus completely on raising money.
The less money you raise, the better because that's how you own more of your company.
'Cause when you raise money, you have to give away part of your company.
So the biggest, most important rule is understanding that raising money is not an accomplishment.
It's an obligation.
Atmahaveer_jyn, What are the three daily habits or practices that have significantly contributed to your success? Read, read, read, read, read.
Gotta learn.
Two, be curious.
Shit changes. You gotta always be curious.
You gotta know what's up.
You gotta stay on top of it.
Three, be agile because the shit's changing 'cause you're learning all the new stuff that you're curious about.
You always gotta be agile and be able to adapt.
And four, ABS, always be selling.
You gotta always be selling because that's the way businesses work.
You do those things, you're gonna crush it.
And the fourth, that was a bonus.
I said three things, I can't count.
Atjoebasshd, What is the difference between cost per acquisition CPA and customer acquisition costs CAC? Well, let's just start with cost per acquisition.
This is the amount it costs you to acquire a customer.
Then there is customer acquisition cost.
That is your cost to acquire a customer.
So the only thing missing between these two is the equal sign between them to tell you that they are pretty much the exact same thing.
Typically what happens is people will go and advertise on social media platform and they'll spend a thousand dollars and after the week or whenever it is, till it runs out, they'll look to see how many customers that they have.
Let's just say they have a hundred customers.
Then you just do the math.
A thousand divided by a hundred gives you for all the math whizzes out there, $10.
Now what is that $10? That's your customer acquisition cost or cost for acquisition.
Atkeepontrucking78, As a business owner, when is it time to call it quits? Walk away, give up, sell, move on, cut your losses.
You get the idea.
That decision typically is gonna be made for you.
You can't pay your bills, you can't pay your employees, you can't pay your bank loan.
And somebody's coming in and telling you, Look, Mark the game's over.
It's the worst feeling ever.
Just because the shit hits the fan and things are going wrong, that's never the time.
You only close up shop when you have no choice.
Or if someone offers you so much money it's just like, hell yes.
Then you look at selling it.
Are you ready to take another step in your life? Is the most important thing to you running that business, regardless of how much it's worth? Or is there so much money involved here that you can change your life? Like when I sold my first business, I retired and bought a lifetime pass in American Airlines.
The most valuable asset to me wasn't the money.
It was the time the money could buy.
You have to make your own decision on what's most important to you.
atGII16728893, Did you ever want to give up? What did you do to get out of the funk? I remember when I started my first business, I had no sales and I remember being terrified.
I mean, the anxiety was through the roof but I just, you know, reminded myself why I started and reminded myself that I made a shitty ass employee.
I was never gonna be good at working for somebody else.
I was a lousy employee because I was a know-it-all.
Right? I was an entrepreneur at heart and I always thought I had a better idea.
I worked for a bank, I called up an executive VP, said, We want to have a happy hour where you talk about what it's like to work at the bank.
I thought that was a really cool idea and I was taking initiative.
My boss brought me into his office.
Who the hell do you think you are? Who gave you permission to do this? You know, you just started here.
What the fuck? I had a tear coming from.
I mean, I'd never felt anything like that before.
And I just knew then that I was not destined to be an employee.
Atobi_raul_kenobi, Why the fuck is medicine so expensive in America? This is bull.
Yes, it is, obi_raul_kenobi.
And what I've learned in disrupting industries, when an industry's been doing it the same way for decades, that's one green flag for me to get in.
When that same industry, does everything possible to complicate the business so no one else can get in? That's a second green flag for me to get involved.
Third, when it's so complicated but when you look at it it's like this is a simple business.
You know what the prescription drug business really is? Somebody makes the drugs, somebody buys the drugs, someone prescribes the drugs, someone sells the drugs.
That is it.
That's the whole prescription drug industry.
And so when I saw that, I'm like, this shit's gonna be easy.
Not cheap, but easy to do.
And so we started costplusdrugs.com in January of 2022.
When there's an industry that's doing it the same way forever, making things more complicated and everybody hates them, that is the best place to start a business.
So you too can dunk on whoever you choose to dunk on.
So those were all the questions for today.
Thanks. There were some amazing questions.
I really enjoyed them.
If I can leave you with any words, the only reason to consider being an entrepreneur, starting your own company, investing is to make your life better.
Just enjoy your time.
Have fun, do your best.
Good things will happen.
Thanks for watching Mogul Support.
[upbeat prelude] Gordon Ramsay Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers Medical Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Jeff Kaplan Answers Overwatch Questions From Twitter Nick Offerman Answers Woodworking Questions From Twitter Bungie's Luke Smith Answers Destiny Questions From Twitter Jackie Chan & Olivia Munn Answer Martial Arts Questions From Twitter Scott Kelly Answers Astronaut Questions From Twitter LaVar Ball Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Dillon Francis Answers DJ Questions From Twitter Tony Hawk Answers Skateboarding Questions From Twitter Jerry Rice Answers Football Questions From Twitter Garry Kasparov Answers Chess Questions From Twitter U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Athletes Answer Olympics Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Anil Seth Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Ben Brode Answers Hearthstone Questions From Twitter John Cena Answers Wrestling Questions From Twitter The Slow Mo Guys Answer Slow Motion Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Even More Science Questions From Twitter James Cameron Answers Sci-Fi Questions From Twitter Best of Tech Support: Bill Nye, Neil DeGrasse Tyson and More Answer Science Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers Even More League of Legends Questions from Twitter PlayerUnknown Answers PUBG Questions From Twitter Liza Koshy, Markiplier, Rhett & Link, and Hannah Hart Answer YouTube Creator Questions From Twitter NCT 127 Answer K-Pop Questions From Twitter Neil deGrasse Tyson Answers Science Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers More Medical Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Claire Answer Cooking Questions From Twitter Bang Bang Answers Tattoo Questions From Twitter Ed Boon Answers Mortal Kombat 11 Questions From Twitter Nick Jonas and Kelly Clarkson Answer Singing Questions from Twitter Penn Jillette Answers Magic Questions From Twitter The Russo Brothers Answer Avengers: Endgame Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers Climbing Questions From Twitter Sloane Stephens Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 3 Astronaut Nicole Stott Answers Space Questions From Twitter Mark Cuban Answers Mogul Questions From Twitter Ubisoft's Alexander Karpazis Answers Rainbow Six Siege Questions From Twitter Marathon Champion Answers Running Questions From Twitter Ninja Answers Fortnite Questions From Twitter Cybersecurity Expert Answers Hacking Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Chris Answer Thanksgiving Questions From Twitter SuperM Answers K-Pop Questions From Twitter The Best of Tech Support: Ken Jeong, Bill Nye, Nicole Stott and More Twitter's Jack Dorsey Answers Twitter Questions From Twitter Jodie Whittaker Answers Doctor Who Questions From Twitter Astronomer Jill Tarter Answers Alien Questions From Twitter Tattoo Artist Bang Bang Answers More Tattoo Questions From Twitter Respawn Answers Apex Legends Questions From Twitter Michael Strahan Answers Super Bowl Questions From Twitter Dr. Martin Blaser Answers Coronavirus Questions From Twitter Scott Adkins Answers Martial Arts Training Questions From Twitter Psychiatrist Daniel Amen Answers Brain Questions From Twitter The Hamilton Cast Answers Hamilton Questions From Twitter Travis & Lyn-Z Pastrana Answer Stunt Questions From Twitter Mayim Bialik Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Zach King Answers TikTok Questions From Twitter Riot Games Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Aaron Sorkin Answers Screenwriting Questions From Twitter Survivorman Les Stroud Answers Survival Questions From Twitter Joe Manganiello Answers Dungeons & Dragons Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers Star Wars Questions From Twitter Wizards of the Coast Answer Magic: The Gathering Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers More Star Wars Questions From Twitter VFX Artist Answers Movie & TV VFX Questions From Twitter CrossFit Coach Answers CrossFit Questions From Twitter Yo-Yo Ma Answers Cello Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Cadaver Questions From Twitter Babish Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Jacob Collier Answers Music Theory Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers More Tolkien Questions From Twitter Wolfgang Puck Answers Restaurant Questions From Twitter Fast & Furious Car Expert Answers Car Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter Olympian Dominique Dawes Answers Gymnastics Questions From Twitter Allyson Felix Answers Track Questions From Twitter Dr. Michio Kaku Answers Physics Questions From Twitter Former NASA Astronaut Answers Space Questions From Twitter Surgeon Answers Surgery Questions From Twitter Beekeeper Answers Bee Questions From Twitter Michael Pollan Answers Psychedelics Questions From Twitter Ultramarathoner Answers Questions From Twitter Bug Expert Answers Insect Questions From Twitter Former Cult Member Answers Cult Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers MORE Dead Body Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers Poison Questions From Twitter Brewmaster Answers Beer Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Biology Questions From Twitter James Dyson Answers Design Questions From Twitter Dermatologist Answers Skin Questions From Twitter Dwyane Wade Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Baker Answers Baking Questions from Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Questions From Twitter Age Expert Answers Aging Questions From Twitter Fertility Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Biological Anthropologist Answers Love Questions From Twitter Mathematician Answers Math Questions From Twitter Statistician Answers Stats Questions From Twitter Sleep Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Botanist Answers Plant Questions From Twitter Ornithologist Answers Bird Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers MORE Rock Climbing Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers MORE Body Language Questions From Twitter Waste Expert Answers Garbage Questions From Twitter Garbage Boss Answers Trash Questions From Twitter J. Kenji López-Alt Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Veterinarian Answers Pet Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Gut Questions From Twitter Chemist Answers Chemistry Questions From Twitter Taste Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Paleontologist Answers Dinosaur Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers More Biology Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Even More Biology Questions From Twitter ER Doctor Answers Injury Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers More Poison Questions From Twitter Energy Expert Answers Energy Questions From Twitter BBQ Pitmaster Answers BBQ Questions From Twitter Neil Gaiman Answers Mythology Questions From Twitter Sushi Chef Answers Sushi Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers Tolkien Questions From Twitter Audiologist Answers Hearing Questions From Twitter Marine Biologist Answers Shark Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 4 John McEnroe Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Malcolm Gladwell Answers Research Questions From Twitter Financial Advisor Answers Money Questions From Twitter Stanford Computer Scientist Answers Coding Questions From Twitter Wildlife Vet Answers Wild Animal Questions From Twitter Climate Scientist Answers Earth Questions From Twitter Medical Doctor Answers Hormone Questions From Twitter James Hoffmann Answers Coffee Questions From Twitter Video Game Director Answers Questions From Twitter Robotics Professor Answers Robot Questions From Twitter Scam Fighters Answer Scam Questions From Twitter Forensics Expert Answers Crime Scene Questions From Twitter Chess Pro Answers Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter...Once Again Memory Champion Answers Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Answers Illusion Questions From Twitter Immunologist Answers Immune System Questions From Twitter Rocket Scientists Answer Questions From Twitter How Vinyl Records Are Made (with Third Man Records) Neurosurgeon Answers Brain Surgery Questions From Twitter Therapist Answers Relationship Questions From Twitter Polyphia's Tim Henson Answers Guitar Questions From Twitter Structural Engineer Answers City Questions From Twitter Harvard Professor Answers Happiness Questions From Twitter A.I. Expert Answers A.I. Questions From Twitter Pizza Chef Answers Pizza Questions From Twitter Former CIA Chief of Disguise Answers Spy Questions From Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Space Questions From Twitter Cannabis Scientist Answers Questions From Twitter Sommelier Answers Wine Questions From Twitter Mycologist Answers Mushroom Questions From Twitter Genndy Tartakovsky Answers Animation Questions From Twitter Pro Card Counter Answers Casino Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Lung Questions From Twitter Paul Hollywood & Prue Leith Answer Baking Questions From Twitter Geneticist Answers Genetics Questions From Twitter Sneaker Expert Jeff Staple Answers Sneaker Questions From Twitter 'The Points Guy' Brian Kelly Answers Travel Questions From Twitter Master Chef Answers Indian Food & Curry Questions From Twitter Archaeologist Answers Archaeology Questions From Twitter LegalEagle's Devin Stone Answers Law Questions From Twitter Todd McFarlane Answers Comics Questions From Twitter Reptile Expert Answers Reptile Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Burial Questions From Twitter Eye Doctor Answers Eye Questions From Twitter Computer Scientist Answers Computer Questions From Twitter Neurologist Answers Nerve Questions From Twitter Hacker Answers Penetration Test Questions From Twitter Nutritionist Answers Nutrition Questions From Twitter Experts Predict the Future of Technology, AI & Humanity Doctor Answers Blood Questions From Twitter Sports Statistician Answers Sports Math Questions From Twitter Shark Tank's Mark Cuban Answers Business Questions From Twitter Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Director Answers Video Game Questions From Twitter Criminologist Answers True Crime Questions From Twitter Physicist Answers Physics Questions From Twitter | Tech Support Chess Pro Answers More Questions From Twitter Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
