Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Todd McFarlane Answers Comics Questions From Twitter About Released on 07/18/2023 This is Todd McFarlane and today I'll be answering your questions from Twitter.
This is Comic Support.
[upbeat music] @ricas_minas, What is more important in the comic: art or story? Here's my complete and utter bias and I'm going to my grave with this answer.
I can sell a book that is drawn by Michelangelo and written by my dog, I can sell that book.
But what I can't do is sell a book that is written by William Shakespeare and drawn by my mom.
@JayNEspinoza, he asked, What's your favorite, not necessarily most valuable, comic book in your collection? I actually have a copy of Action Comics #1.
This is a reprint.
Historically, this is when superheroes began.
It's also the first appearance of Superman.
Recent issues have sold for like close to $4 million.
There's a couple things that drive the price.
One is it have historical significance.
Two, way more important is the first issue.
Three, it happens to be the introduction of a new character.
So if you happen to have the Fantastic Four issue that has the first appearance of the Black Panther, that issue is gonna be way more expensive than the issue before or after it.
@jedigavin asks Why are so many comic book illustrators scared or unable to draw feet? [laughs] Here's the first rule in comic books that every comic book artist is taught.
If in doubt, black it out.
If you're not good at something, hide it.
If you can't draw feet, make sure that they're always standing in thick grass.
Here's what our big goal is in comic books.
You have a 2D piece of paper that means it's flat.
And what happens if I now take webbings, and I put webbings back behind him, it goes through his leg, comes back up and around here, I create this sense of volume.
The moment I put an arm in front, I've created a plane and then if I turn my hand and I break it down at an angle and I do something with my fingers I've created seven or eight more planes.
Then what happens if I turn and I put my hand back behind it? So I've got foreground, mid-ground background.
But then what happens if I'm doing Spider-Man and I put the foot up on top of it? Take 2D and create as much depth as you can and you're gonna be a hell of a comic book artist.
@NotSoRiley, Is Comic-Con even about comic books anymore? When San Diego Comic-Con first began, was it 95% about comic book creators, comic book stores, comic book paraphernalia? Yes, yes and yes, right? It was held at a small little hotel in a basement.
Maybe a couple thousand people attend it.
That was in the '70s, early '80s.
Now, fast forward, what is Comic-Con? Now it's literally every walk of life.
Do I think that there's something in that building for everybody? Of course there is.
It is literally pop culture.
@Mirkand asked What's the difference between comic and graphic novel? A comic book is what you see here, right? It's sort of what you're used to.
It's pretty thin, pretty flimsy.
Usually 20 pages of interior artwork, costs maybe $4.
A graphic novel is more of something like this that basically is four or five issues put together.
A true graphic novel though, somebody saying, I don't wanna do five issues of 20 pages which equal a hundred pages.
I wanna do all 100 pages in one book.
@SillyRabbet442 ask Just got done watching 'Venom 2,' the movie, and now I wanna learn how to draw Venom.
Venom to me is he's got a big eye, right? Make sure you have a big eye and his eyes a little bit sort of craggily, because you don't want it to be smooth 'cause otherwise that's gonna be Spider-Man.
He's got his big head here.
And then the one thing that we like about Venom is he's got the big mouth, right? So we're even gonna make him smile just a little bit.
Then make sure when you drawing teeth that they're all different size and shapes, right? Take a look at the inside of your dog's mouth or any animals, and don't make 'em perfect.
I hate perfect teeth on monsters, they don't go to dentists.
And then the thing that makes him better than Spider-Man is that he's big.
As long as you get the big eyes and you get the cool teeth and the tongue in there and you make 'em big like the Hulk, you can get there pretty quickly.
Venom is a complete and utter happy accident.
Why? Because when I was taking over Amazing Spider-Man Spider-Man was in the black costume and I didn't like it.
Put him back in the red and blue costume.
What if I take the costume off the dude, put it on something else.
I'll give you some drawings.
Those drawings ended up being what we now know as the look of Venom.
@ComicsSteve What is the Marvel method? And the Marvel method, what he's talking about was for years and years the writers would only give an outline of what they wanted the pages to look like to the artist.
I would then have to interpret a couple of pages of outline and turn those into 20 pages.
Which is basically how Stan Lee did it which is where the Marvel method came from.
You have five people working on a comic book.
You have the writer, obviously, is the one that comes up with the storyline and will eventually put the words into the character's mouth.
The penciler is the person who, as you can imagine, has a pencil takes blank paper and is the one that is responsible for all the drawings.
The inker then is the one that applies black ink.
The colorist then, as you can imagine, comes in adds some cool colors 'cause that in black and white might not be quite as sexy.
Then the letterer then takes the script and then comes in and puts all those word balloons and all those captions, and when all five of those people touch the page you end up with a complete comic book.
@SystemsEmenos asks, How do people write for comics? Is it full on novel, just keywords and descriptions or straight up improvisation? Most writers write full scripts.
They give you basically how many panels they want and that's basically how many different drawings they want on a page.
They give you the dialogue, they give you the captions and then they give you descriptions of what they want inside each one of those drawings.
They're essentially writing and directing.
I think you should give way more freedom to the artist.
So when I'm writing, I just give descriptive stuff.
I'll give you an example.
I got three pages.
You have two cops they're in their office they're talking about a case.
At the end of that three page I need one of the cops to be mad at his partner.
Do I care, personally, whether in those three pages, the two cops get mad at each other in the first page at the beginning, and then they're mad with each other at the very end.
Or if they're actually doing a good thing for two and a half pages and then near the end one of the guys says something about the other guy's mama and he goes, Screw you.
And then he walks out and he slams the door, do I care? I do not.
@MajinIsy asks, How the [beep] do comic book writers keep up with their continuity? Let's define what comic book continuity is.
Basically, every time you come out with an issue you're laying another sort of stone on a pathway, right? And so you can't contradict something that has previously been written, unless you give a reason for it.
I'll let you in on a little bit, little secret.
Spawn, he's got a costume and the costume it's alive and it moves and it morphs.
It wasn't actually alive on issue number one at least in my head, it wasn't alive.
I was drawing my first issue of Spawn and I was putting like leg packs on him and putting some spikes on him.
And then somebody wrote a letter saying, Todd, how come on page four, the leg pack is on the left leg and on page nine the pack is on the right leg.
And he used to have three spikes, now he has four spikes.
Confronted with this criticism, you have two choices.
You either say, Sorry, [beep] up.
or you take the other one, which what I did, which is that's because the costume is alive.
And if anybody ever asks I go costume's alive, it's always morphing, it's never the same.
Where when you're doing Thor and Spider-Man and Batman you have to actually nail it from panel to panel.
Not old Spawny here.
@dukealoops asks On a scale of 1-10 how much would I regret reading 'Spider-Man: Torment'? If you go and read Spider-Man: Torment.
Spider-Man #1 was the biggest selling comic book, still is to this day for a single creator.
Is it my best writing? No.
Is it a cool read? I don't know, I think so.
Spider-Man: Torment, just to give some context is the first story I ever wrote when I became a writer on Spider-Man.
Todd, the the artist who was the penciler and the inker had been doing this for about five or six, seven years.
I wasn't a writer in those first six years.
I was starting to do some innovations on Spider-Man.
It's literally what sort of made my career over at Marvel Comic Books.
When he put the costume on, he was a bug to me.
And so I made big eyes.
I gave him way more webs on his costume.
I reinvented his webbings.
I put 'em in these freakish positions.
He was a rubbery guy.
When they tried to do the first Spider-Man movie, Sam Raimi, who directed it, they couldn't emulate those poses.
They had all my artwork, they couldn't emulate it because I wasn't paying attention to anatomy.
I just was going for the cool factor.
@Comixcentral asks In comics, historically characters are often binary.
Evil or angelic, on or off, good or bad.
How does the anti-hero archetype change the game? I'm gonna tell you a character I think is boring to me.
Superman, and here's why, he's perfect.
He says everything right.
Oh, and by the way, he has the power to spin planets on his finger and he's a boy scout.
The characters I always liked were the ones that were flawed.
We think that being a hero automatically makes you good.
I don't, I think it's the decisions along the journey that are way, way more interesting.
I have a character called Spawn.
He is a completely flawed man.
He lets his emotions get the better of him at times.
He does things that he regrets afterwards.
Will he ever figure it out? I don't know.
I hope I never have to write the last issue of my character.
@DylanJa77545989.
His question is actually shorter than his name.
What gave you the inspiration for 'Spawn'? I was just starting to date my girlfriend, who's now my wife, and I just thought that having a hero come back for love instead of revenge would be a cool idea.
I created him when I was 16, put him in my portfolio, went to school, ended up getting a job at Marvel.
And years later in 1992 when I was almost 30, pulled him out of my portfolio and the first issue of Spawn came out.
I never gave Spawn idea away to either Marvel or DC when I was working for 'em.
I saved him till the proper time.
@Slade_left asks Not a big comic guy, why is Batman a fascist? And how did Frank Miller contribute to this? He's not a fascist, that dude's a badass, go Bruce.
I actually get Bruce Wayne.
He knows that there are bad people out there and that they basically pick on innocent people that are basically less powerful than them.
I'm gonna come up with this black costume.
I'm gonna go scare the shit of those bad guys.
If you like the Batman movies today, you can thank Frank Miller.
He did a twist on a character that I thought had gotten stale, and so did he.
And he just basically messed with the icon.
And sometimes that's what you need to do.
Every now and then you just need to shake the cage and let people see something a little bit different.
@NickWetmore Which comic covers will always catch your eye and you can't help yourself to comment about on social media.
I tried to basically just make it so that, what I call the three second rule, I can just do a drawing.
Get my mom, go Mom, one, two, three, what did you see? She should be able to say It looked like a person was jumping or flying over a city.
And if she gets that basic information then the clarity of the image is what I basically need.
One of the covers I did that a lot of people seem to like is Hulk 340.
Wolverine was in it and he's screaming the camera's on Wolverine's face and he's got his blades up, and I made his blades instead of spikes I made them fat almost like butcher knives.
And then reflected in the knives was a screaming Hulk.
I thought it was okay cover, I didn't think it was my best.
Years later they did a voting on Marvel's website for the all time best comic book covers ever in the history of Marvel, it was voted number one.
@ScottENoble asks I was thinking about Martin Scorsese's comment where he said 'Marvel films are not cinema.' And I must beg the question can comic books be considered a form of literature? Of course, of course.
What are we talking about? Here's what comic books are.
The combination of words and pictures.
If you don't think the comic books are literature or art, don't consume them, go and find something else.
But please step to the side 'cause somebody behind you might think they are and we need them to come to the party.
So here's the easy answer, Martin, you don't like 'em, don't go, and people who do like it will go.
@flyfoxpro asks Who are some of your biggest comic book inspirations, specifically as they are reflected in your art? Jack Kirby, just because again, I don't draw like him but his storytelling was big and bombastic.
John Byrne for the way that he basically did some of his action.
Gil Kane was a guy who when he hit somebody, bam it felt like you were getting shot out of a cannon.
George Perez, he would draw machinery that still to this day, stuns me.
Marshall Rogers did some of the coolest capes I ever saw.
All these people you put them, a little bit of those influences in a blender pour it out and that becomes Todd McFarlane's style.
But it really is using ingredients that have preexisted, I think, from all the people that I grew up on.
@Hunt50501 How was it like working with Stan Lee? Stan Lee, for hopefully only two of you out there that don't know, is the one that basically co-created almost every single Marvel character that you've ever heard of.
The Stan Lee that you saw in person that big gregarious guy, excelsior he's the exact same dude.
He would hand it over to the artists and the other people on the team and he would say, Go, I'm gonna give you a germ of an idea.
You go and do your thing.
He was a good man, we all miss him.
@Figureoftheday asks What is the most important feature on an action figure? Detail, articulation, arms at stretch into next week? For lots of people who collect action figures, movement matters.
Can my figure move? Here's what most toys looked like when my company began, McFarlane Toys, they had five movements.
One was a head, one was an arm right here, nothing else moved just the shoulder.
This character right now not only has way more detail, is bigger than those toys were when I started, but it has 32 moving parts.
The other ones had five.
After I broke into the toy business.
I understand why toys are made a certain way.
They're maximizing their margins of profit.
@Harold_Magnus Back in February 1st, 1992 three friends called Todd McFarlane, Jim Lee, and Rob Liefeld founded a little independent comic book company called Image Comics.
Have you ever heard about it? Yes, I have, I'm one of the co-founders of it.
We all were working at Marvel Comic Books and we were sort of the elite artist at that time.
We left started Image Comic Books.
What we were just trying to do was come up with a way of doing business in the comic book industry that would make more sense to us.
And so the biggest piece of it was all of us got to own our own ideas.
When you're doing Batman, when you're doing Superman, when you're doing Spider-Man, although you can have as much fun as you want, you don't have any rights into those stories.
@Jellyfish_GS So if I wanna get into comic books or graphic novels, where do I start? On the superhero front? It depends, if you like Big Fantasy, I would go with maybe some of the team books.
If you like, sort of urban grittier stuff, I'd go with Batman, Daredevil, even something like Spawn.
The Walking Dead, it's basically a zombie book.
It's really about the human condition.
Go into a comic book store, tell the person working at the front what your personal tastes are, and I promise you there's a book that is in that store that's for you.
So those are all the questions today.
Thanks for watching Comic Support.
Gordon Ramsay Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers Medical Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Jeff Kaplan Answers Overwatch Questions From Twitter Nick Offerman Answers Woodworking Questions From Twitter Bungie's Luke Smith Answers Destiny Questions From Twitter Jackie Chan & Olivia Munn Answer Martial Arts Questions From Twitter Scott Kelly Answers Astronaut Questions From Twitter LaVar Ball Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Dillon Francis Answers DJ Questions From Twitter Tony Hawk Answers Skateboarding Questions From Twitter Jerry Rice Answers Football Questions From Twitter Garry Kasparov Answers Chess Questions From Twitter U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Athletes Answer Olympics Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Anil Seth Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Ben Brode Answers Hearthstone Questions From Twitter John Cena Answers Wrestling Questions From Twitter The Slow Mo Guys Answer Slow Motion Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Even More Science Questions From Twitter James Cameron Answers Sci-Fi Questions From Twitter Best of Tech Support: Bill Nye, Neil DeGrasse Tyson and More Answer Science Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers Even More League of Legends Questions from Twitter PlayerUnknown Answers PUBG Questions From Twitter Liza Koshy, Markiplier, Rhett & Link, and Hannah Hart Answer YouTube Creator Questions From Twitter NCT 127 Answer K-Pop Questions From Twitter Neil deGrasse Tyson Answers Science Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers More Medical Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Claire Answer Cooking Questions From Twitter Bang Bang Answers Tattoo Questions From Twitter Ed Boon Answers Mortal Kombat 11 Questions From Twitter Nick Jonas and Kelly Clarkson Answer Singing Questions from Twitter Penn Jillette Answers Magic Questions From Twitter The Russo Brothers Answer Avengers: Endgame Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers Climbing Questions From Twitter Sloane Stephens Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 3 Astronaut Nicole Stott Answers Space Questions From Twitter Mark Cuban Answers Mogul Questions From Twitter Ubisoft's Alexander Karpazis Answers Rainbow Six Siege Questions From Twitter Marathon Champion Answers Running Questions From Twitter Ninja Answers Fortnite Questions From Twitter Cybersecurity Expert Answers Hacking Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Chris Answer Thanksgiving Questions From Twitter SuperM Answers K-Pop Questions From Twitter The Best of Tech Support: Ken Jeong, Bill Nye, Nicole Stott and More Twitter's Jack Dorsey Answers Twitter Questions From Twitter Jodie Whittaker Answers Doctor Who Questions From Twitter Astronomer Jill Tarter Answers Alien Questions From Twitter Tattoo Artist Bang Bang Answers More Tattoo Questions From Twitter Respawn Answers Apex Legends Questions From Twitter Michael Strahan Answers Super Bowl Questions From Twitter Dr. Martin Blaser Answers Coronavirus Questions From Twitter Scott Adkins Answers Martial Arts Training Questions From Twitter Psychiatrist Daniel Amen Answers Brain Questions From Twitter The Hamilton Cast Answers Hamilton Questions From Twitter Travis & Lyn-Z Pastrana Answer Stunt Questions From Twitter Mayim Bialik Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Zach King Answers TikTok Questions From Twitter Riot Games Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Aaron Sorkin Answers Screenwriting Questions From Twitter Survivorman Les Stroud Answers Survival Questions From Twitter Joe Manganiello Answers Dungeons & Dragons Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers Star Wars Questions From Twitter Wizards of the Coast Answer Magic: The Gathering Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers More Star Wars Questions From Twitter VFX Artist Answers Movie & TV VFX Questions From Twitter CrossFit Coach Answers CrossFit Questions From Twitter Yo-Yo Ma Answers Cello Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Cadaver Questions From Twitter Babish Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Jacob Collier Answers Music Theory Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers More Tolkien Questions From Twitter Wolfgang Puck Answers Restaurant Questions From Twitter Fast & Furious Car Expert Answers Car Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter Olympian Dominique Dawes Answers Gymnastics Questions From Twitter Allyson Felix Answers Track Questions From Twitter Dr. Michio Kaku Answers Physics Questions From Twitter Former NASA Astronaut Answers Space Questions From Twitter Surgeon Answers Surgery Questions From Twitter Beekeeper Answers Bee Questions From Twitter Michael Pollan Answers Psychedelics Questions From Twitter Ultramarathoner Answers Questions From Twitter Bug Expert Answers Insect Questions From Twitter Former Cult Member Answers Cult Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers MORE Dead Body Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers Poison Questions From Twitter Brewmaster Answers Beer Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Biology Questions From Twitter James Dyson Answers Design Questions From Twitter Dermatologist Answers Skin Questions From Twitter Dwyane Wade Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Baker Answers Baking Questions from Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Questions From Twitter Age Expert Answers Aging Questions From Twitter Fertility Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Biological Anthropologist Answers Love Questions From Twitter Mathematician Answers Math Questions From Twitter Statistician Answers Stats Questions From Twitter Sleep Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Botanist Answers Plant Questions From Twitter Ornithologist Answers Bird Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers MORE Rock Climbing Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers MORE Body Language Questions From Twitter Waste Expert Answers Garbage Questions From Twitter Garbage Boss Answers Trash Questions From Twitter J. Kenji López-Alt Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Veterinarian Answers Pet Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Gut Questions From Twitter Chemist Answers Chemistry Questions From Twitter Taste Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Paleontologist Answers Dinosaur Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers More Biology Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Even More Biology Questions From Twitter ER Doctor Answers Injury Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers More Poison Questions From Twitter Energy Expert Answers Energy Questions From Twitter BBQ Pitmaster Answers BBQ Questions From Twitter Neil Gaiman Answers Mythology Questions From Twitter Sushi Chef Answers Sushi Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers Tolkien Questions From Twitter Audiologist Answers Hearing Questions From Twitter Marine Biologist Answers Shark Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 4 John McEnroe Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Malcolm Gladwell Answers Research Questions From Twitter Financial Advisor Answers Money Questions From Twitter Stanford Computer Scientist Answers Coding Questions From Twitter Wildlife Vet Answers Wild Animal Questions From Twitter Climate Scientist Answers Earth Questions From Twitter Medical Doctor Answers Hormone Questions From Twitter James Hoffmann Answers Coffee Questions From Twitter Video Game Director Answers Questions From Twitter Robotics Professor Answers Robot Questions From Twitter Scam Fighters Answer Scam Questions From Twitter Forensics Expert Answers Crime Scene Questions From Twitter Chess Pro Answers Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter...Once Again Memory Champion Answers Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Answers Illusion Questions From Twitter Immunologist Answers Immune System Questions From Twitter Rocket Scientists Answer Questions From Twitter How Vinyl Records Are Made (with Third Man Records) Neurosurgeon Answers Brain Surgery Questions From Twitter Therapist Answers Relationship Questions From Twitter Polyphia's Tim Henson Answers Guitar Questions From Twitter Structural Engineer Answers City Questions From Twitter Harvard Professor Answers Happiness Questions From Twitter A.I. Expert Answers A.I. Questions From Twitter Pizza Chef Answers Pizza Questions From Twitter Former CIA Chief of Disguise Answers Spy Questions From Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Space Questions From Twitter Cannabis Scientist Answers Questions From Twitter Sommelier Answers Wine Questions From Twitter Mycologist Answers Mushroom Questions From Twitter Genndy Tartakovsky Answers Animation Questions From Twitter Pro Card Counter Answers Casino Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Lung Questions From Twitter Paul Hollywood & Prue Leith Answer Baking Questions From Twitter Geneticist Answers Genetics Questions From Twitter Sneaker Expert Jeff Staple Answers Sneaker Questions From Twitter 'The Points Guy' Brian Kelly Answers Travel Questions From Twitter Master Chef Answers Indian Food & Curry Questions From Twitter Archaeologist Answers Archaeology Questions From Twitter LegalEagle's Devin Stone Answers Law Questions From Twitter Todd McFarlane Answers Comics Questions From Twitter Reptile Expert Answers Reptile Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Burial Questions From Twitter Eye Doctor Answers Eye Questions From Twitter Computer Scientist Answers Computer Questions From Twitter Neurologist Answers Nerve Questions From Twitter Hacker Answers Penetration Test Questions From Twitter Nutritionist Answers Nutrition Questions From Twitter Experts Predict the Future of Technology, AI & Humanity Doctor Answers Blood Questions From Twitter Sports Statistician Answers Sports Math Questions From Twitter Shark Tank's Mark Cuban Answers Business Questions From Twitter Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Director Answers Video Game Questions From Twitter Criminologist Answers True Crime Questions From Twitter Physicist Answers Physics Questions From Twitter | Tech Support Chess Pro Answers More Questions From Twitter Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
