Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You About Released on 09/20/2023 [Dr. Emily] If you took somebody from sea level to the top of Everest, no supplemental oxygen, no support, they would be unconscious within minutes.
Everest is a very inhospitable environment.
[Narrator] 100s of people attempt to summit Everest every year during the small once a year window that weather allows.
Not everyone makes it.
And 2023 was an especially fatal year.
[dramatic music] So there are a number of things that can kill you on Mount Everest.
You fall into the mountain, you fall off the mountain, the mountain falls on you.
But because it's the highest and because people like to check boxes, it's popular.
I think with more inexperienced people, that's a problem.
[Narrator] And Dr. Emily Johnston knows.
She's a mountaineering guide and a doctor trained in wilderness emergencies, particularly at altitude.
She's summited Everest three times in each of the tallest peaks in all seven continents.
Starting at base camp, she'll break down the physical dangers that climbers face all the way to the top.
So this is Everest base Camp around 17,500 feet.
The molecules are twice as far apart.
You've already lost half of your oxygen.
So 2,500 meters, that's when you would start to see changes.
So we're well above that here.
So acute mountain sickness is not unusual here.
People do get high altitude pulmonary edema and high altitude cerebral edema here as well.
People also get GI problems because there are a lot of people living here.
So it's not unusual for people to get nausea, vomiting, diarrhea.
That's probably one of the biggest problems at base camp is just sanitation.
And a lot of people fly in and then come up the valley and get GI bugs.
So GI bugs are a big problem here.
[Narrator] The Khumbo icefall is a constantly moving frozen river creating deep and wide crevasses.
It was also the site of a deadly avalanche that killed 16 in 2014.
[Dr. Emily] The Khumbo icefall is a steep area of lots of broken ice, lots of crevasses and seracs.
And the biggest problem here is that ice will fall on you or you will fall on a crevasse.
It's really difficult because there's no place to land a helicopter 'cause you need a flat space.
You could pick somebody off with a short haul rescue, but it's unlikely that you're gonna do that.
[Narrator] No matter what part of the mountain climbers are on, proper gear is essential, not just for staying warm, but for survival.
Here's some of Emily's essential gear bag.
So here's some of the standard gear that we use on Everest.
Down suit, it's pretty warm.
Here's some big mittens and they're so big that you actually wear another pair of gloves underneath.
This is that harness that I wear at high altitude.
You have this thing, we call it a crab claw and it's connected to the harness and you have crampons, you know, spikes that you put on your feet.
[Narrator] And some gear can save your life or kill you.
So this is my ice ax.
Pretty standard ice ax for glacier travel.
One of the ways we use the ice ax, it's not so much...
It's not a walking stick, it's more to stop yourself.
So what you do is you turn over, you get in anchor position, you try to get this into the snow to slow yourself down or stop yourself.
It is a tool when it's in control.
It is a weapon when it's outta control.
And one of the reasons there's no wrist loop on here is if you fall and it's attached to you with a wrist loop and you lose control of the ax, wow, that's not a good situation.
[Narrator] Camp three is a 30 degree snow slope with rocky exposed ledges.
[Dr. Emily] We go up the western Cwm to Camp two, which is about 21,000 feet, 21,500 feet.
From here we go up the Lhotse Face to Camp three which is on the Lhotse Face.
One of the big problems going from camp two to camp three is that's a big jump at a high altitude.
And so maybe somebody who's had a little bit of acute mount sickness, they've been kind of ignoring it and they're like, yeah, it's just altitude.
I don't feel that good, high altitude pulmonary edema, high altitude cerebral edema are greatest concerns.
And they're not easy to diagnose.
High altitude pulmonary edema particularly, it's a continuum of brain swelling.
And this brain swelling is caused by a number of things.
One thing is when your brain gets hypoxic, it opens up the blood flow to the brain.
And the way it kills you is your brain is a walnut in a shell, right? The shell is your skull.
If it swells, it can only go so far.
The only way to for your brain to get out of the shell is to go down through the bottom of your skull which is not compatible with life.
That's high altitude cerebral edema, descent is the treatment of choice.
What happens sometimes though, you get a camp three, it's super windy, it's in a dangerous spot, you can't go down because it's too dangerous.
So then you have to treat them while they're there.
We have to use a portable hyperbaric chamber called a gamow bag.
It's airtight, so it's tough if they're claustrophobic or vomiting or whatever.
And then you hook the pump up and you pump it up so that the pressure inside the bag simulates being at a lower altitude from a physiologic standpoint.
And you have to pump it 10 to 20 times a minute, so that they get fresh air in there and their carbon dioxide gets expelled.
You can't just leave somebody in one of these bags 'cause they would suffocate.
Let's give it a try.
We're gonna put you in it.
Perfect, that's great.
So go ahead and lie down.
So I'm filling the bag with air right now and then I'll overfill it.
And that is what will simulate altitude.
If you're gonna rescue somebody, you can help lower them with the straps that are attached to the outside.
You can use them tactically.
Ta-da.
Whoa, how you doing? [Narrator] Camp four is the last stop before the summit.
[Dr. Emily] This is what people call the death zone.
In the world, there are very few human habitations above 16,000 feet because you just can't keep up.
Now all of a sudden you're at 26,000 feet, you're 10,000 feet above that level, and so things are breaking down.
If you cut yourself, you don't heal very well.
If you get sick, you do not get better.
So you're definitely in the zone where your body can't keep up.
And on summit day, from the south call to the summit, people are driving themselves really hard.
They're typically haven't been eating and drinking very well.
They haven't been sleeping well.
They're affected by the hypoxia.
They may be hypothermic.
And so this is the most dangerous place.
One, just environmentally, the atmosphere, there's less oxygen.
And then two, they're tired from this whole process.
[Narrator] Between 1921 and 2006, 56% of deaths occurred during the descent for people who climbed higher than 8,000 meters.
Getting to the summit is optional.
Getting back down safely is mandatory.
The problem is there's also this huge sorta catecholamine surge, people are like, I did it.
I have achieved my goal.
You think you've won the game, but you haven't.
You have to get all the way back down.
All they're thinking about is going home.
They're not thinking about putting one foot in front of the other, they haven't been eating and drinking and they come down and they can fall off.
And it is a long way.
And people make big decisions that are wrong.
Like people will come down a ridge and they're supposed to go to the left and they'll go to the right.
People will make poor decisions.
They'll sit down and they won't get back up because they're just confused.
They just have no idea where they are.
After summiting, my biggest concern is exhaustion and dehydration.
You know, snow blindness can set in a little bit later.
UV keratitis is the fancy name for snow blindness.
It just means that your corneas are exposed to more ultraviolet radiation, then they're accustomed to.
If you are out in this ultraviolet radiation for too long, it can get to the point where the next day it'll feel like you have sand in your eyes and then you won't even be able to open your eyes.
You need somebody to lead you around.
And there are a lot of places on the upper mountain where you simply can't lead somebody around.
Particularly if you're on above the south call, like on a summit bid and you get snow blindness when it...
If it manifests there, it'd be very difficult to rescue somebody who can't see.
[Narrator] Everest remains one of the safest tall ultra high altitude peaks to climb simply because of all the infrastructure.
Despite that there was an unusual amount of deaths on the mountain in 2023.
The reason we see so many fatalities on Everest is it's a numbers game.
If you look at the risk of dying on Everest as compared to something like Annapurna, it's much lower on Everest.
It's much lower on Everest than most of the other 8,000 meter peaks.
You get more people on the freeway and more people die in car accidents.
You get more people on Mount Everest and more people will die on Mount Everest.
Two is weather.
Typically, if you have a whole bunch of people going for the summit on one day, if there are fewer summit days in a season, you're probably gonna have more problems because you are gonna have traffic jams.
There are people that are box checkers, they just wanna have climb Mount Everest and they're so driven to be able to say that at a cocktail party in Houston that they'll just drive themselves to do it.
So a lot of people just want to check the box, but not everybody.
It's incredibly beautiful up there.
It's as close as you can get to being on another planet.
The sky is this impossible blue because there's less atmosphere.
So the higher you go, the bluer and deeper blue that you get in the sky, and when you get to the edge, it changes you.
And there is something that happens that I can't describe, but it's very seductive.
[dramatic music] How the Disco Clam Uses Light to Fight Super-Strong Predators Architect Explains How Homes Could be 3D Printed on Mars and Earth Scientist Explains How Rare Genetics Allow Some to Sleep Only 4 Hours a Night Scientist Explains Unsinkable Metal That Could Prevent Disasters at Sea Is Invisibility Possible? An Inventor and a Physicist Explain Scientist Explains Why Her Lab Taught Rats to Drive Tiny Cars Mycologist Explains How a Slime Mold Can Solve Mazes How the Two-Hour Marathon Limit Was Broken Research Suggests Cats Like Their Owners as Much as Dogs Researcher Explains Deepfake Videos Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese Hurricane Hunter Explains How They Track and Predict Hurricanes Scientist Explains Viral Fish Cannon Video A Biohacker Explains Why He Turned His Leg Into a Hotspot Scientist Explains What Water Pooling in Kilauea's Volcanic Crater Means Bill Nye Explains the Science Behind Solar Sailing Vision Scientist Explains Why These Praying Mantises Are Wearing 3D Glasses Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology Scientist's Map Explains Climate Change Scientist Explains How Moon Mining Would Work Scientist Explains How She Captured Rare Footage of a Giant Squid Doctor Explains How Sunscreen Affects Your Body Stranger Things is Getting a New Mall! But Today Malls Are Dying. What Happened? The Limits of Human Endurance Might Be Our Guts Meet the First College Students to Launch a Rocket Into Space Scientist Explains Why Dogs Can Smell Better Than Robots A Harvard Professor Explains What the Avengers Can Teach Us About Philosophy NASA Twin Study: How Space Changes Our Bodies What the Black Hole Picture Means for Researchers Scientist Explains How to Levitate Objects With Sound Why Scientists and Artists Want The Blackest Substances on Earth Biologist Explains How Drones Catching Whale "Snot" Helps Research Researcher Explains Why Humans Can't Spot Real-Life Deepfake Masks Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About The Coronavirus VFX Artist Breaks Down This Year's Best Visual Effects Nominees How Doctors on Earth Treated a Blood Clot in Space Scientist Explains Why Some Cats Eat Human Corpses Voting Expert Explains How Voting Technology Will Impact the 2020 Election Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About Pandemics ER Doctor Explains How They're Handling Covid-19 Why This Taste Map Is Wrong Q&A: What's Next for the Coronavirus Pandemic? Why Captive Tigers Can’t Be Reintroduced to the Wild How Covid-19 Immunity Compares to Other Diseases 5 Mistakes to Avoid as We Try to Stop Covid-19 How This Emergency Ventilator Could Keep Covid-19 Patients Alive Why NASA Made a Helicopter for Mars Theoretical Physicist Breaks Down the Marvel Multiverse Former NASA Astronaut Explains Jeff Bezos's Space Flight Physics Student Breaks Down Gymnastics Physics What Do Cities Look Like Under a Microscope? Inside the Largest Bitcoin Mine in The U.S.
How Caffeine Has Fueled History How Mushroom Time-Lapses Are Filmed Why You’ll Fail the Milk Crate Challenge Why Vegan Cheese Doesn't Melt How 250 Cameras Filmed Neill Blomkamp's Demonic How Meme Detectives Stop NFT Fraud How Disney Designed a Robotic Spider-Man How Online Conspiracy Groups Compare to Cults Dune Costume Designers Break Down Dune’s Stillsuits Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' Why Scientists Are Stress Testing Tardigrades Every Prototype that Led to a Realistic Prosthetic Arm Why the Toilet Needs an Upgrade How Animals Are Evolving Because of Climate Change How Stop-Motion Movies Are Animated at Aardman Astronomer Explains How NASA Detects Asteroids Are We Living In A Simulation? Inside the Journey of a Shipping Container (And Why the Supply Chain Is So Backed Up) The Science of Slow Aging How Nose Swabs Detect New Covid-19 Strains Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes The Science Behind Elon Musk’s Neuralink Brain Chip Every Prototype to Make a Humanoid Robot Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work A Timeline of Russian Cyberattacks on Ukraine VFX Artist Breaks Down Oscar-Nominated CGI Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now We Invented the Perfect WIRED Autocomplete Glue How Everything Everywhere All at Once's Visual Effects Were Made How Dogs Coevolved with Humans How an Architect Redesigns NYC Streets Viking Expert Breaks Down The Northman Weapons J. Kenji López-Alt Breaks Down the Science of Stir-Fry How A.I. Is Changing Hollywood How Trash Goes From Garbage Cans to Landfills Veterinarian Explains How to Prevent Pet Separation Anxiety The Science Behind Genetically Modified Mosquitoes How Scientists & Filmmakers Brought Prehistoric Planet's Dinosaurs to Life All the Ways Google Gets Street View Images How Public Cameras Recognize and Track You How the Nuro Robotic Delivery Car Was Built Biologist Explains the Unexpected Origins of Feathers in Fashion Surgeons Break Down Separating Conjoined Twins Former Air Force Pilot Breaks Down UFO Footage Bug Expert Explains Why Cicadas Are So Loud The Best of CES 2021 Health Expert Explains What You Need to Know About Quarantines Scientist Explains How People Might Hibernate Like Bears Could a Chernobyl Level Nuclear Disaster Happen in the US? Neuroscientist Explains ASMR's Effects on the Brain & The Body Why Top Scientists Are Pretending an Asteroid is Headed for Earth Epidemiologist Answers Common Monkeypox Questions Bill Nye Breaks Down Webb Telescope Space Images How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Every Trick a Pro GeoGuessr Player Uses to Win How NASA Biologists Plan to Grow Plants on the Moon How FIFA Graphics & Gameplay Are Evolving (1993 - 2023) How a Vet Performs Dangerous Surgeries on Wild Animals This Heart is Not Human How Entomologists Use Insects to Solve Crimes Former NASA Astronaut Breaks Down a Rocket Launch Chess Pro Explains How to Spot Cheaters Why Billionaires Are Actually Ruining the Economy How to Keep Your New Year’s Resolutions for More Than a Week The Biology Behind The Last of Us English Teacher Grades Homework By ChatGPT All the Ways a Cold Plunge Affects the Body Spy Historian Debunks Chinese Spy Balloon Theories A.I. Tries 20 Jobs | WIRED Mathematician Breaks Down the Best Ways to Win the Lottery Why Music Festivals Sound Better Than Ever Pro Interpreters vs. AI Challenge: Who Translates Faster and Better? Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
