Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe About Released on 08/04/2023 Everything in the body has some meaning.
We're gonna take a look, starting at the head and going all the way down to the toes, at some of the most interesting body parts that have often been categorized as maybe useless.
[pointer clicking] [upbeat music] Auricular muscles.
Some people have muscles where they can wiggle their ears a little bit.
These are rare.
We have three on the outside, so these are remnant auricular muscles that originally had great functions, particularly with sound the way your dog or your cat do.
Even in many of the monkeys our ancestors ears are able to move a bit with sound, but now they've largely lost that function and they are usually considered vestigial.
The term vestigial comes from the Latin meaning footprints, so there are structures that were thought to be sort of footprints in time, giving us little clues to what came before.
So we, when we hear a sound do not necessarily move our ears in that direction.
We tend to move our entire head towards the sound.
What's interesting to show that it's still hooked up, studies have shown that when we hear a sound, the brain areas that deal with these muscles have some activity.
[pointer clicking] [upbeat music] Pica Semilunaris.
When you look at the medial side of the eye area you're going to see a vertical line.
Here is the location.
Next time you look at a dog or a cat or a reptile, you'll notice that they don't have two, but they have three eyelids.
We have an up, we have a down, they have one that goes side to side.
That's the nictitating membrane and this little fold is the remnant.
We know we don't have it in our closest relative, the chimp, and we don't have it in ourselves.
It's a moister, and apparently we have sufficient moistening without needing that.
[pointer clicking] [upbeat music] Wisdom teeth.
Technically known as our third molars.
You can see here they're largely problematic, in which they bend or twist, and you have to go to the oral surgeon to have them removed.
Over the eons of our evolutionary changes, our diet became very varied.
The molars are grinding teeth for eating leaves and vegetable type things.
We became more omnivorous.
This is a gorilla, and you can see how the face is very forward in a gorilla.
In the course of human evolution our face became very flattened in.
Our molar teeth became shoved all the way back.
The molars became squished in.
We developed a very, very pronounced chin, found only in homo sapiens.
It's a distinguishing feature of our species and we're not exactly clear what made it come about.
It's a byproduct.
It's called a spandrel.
Sometimes things occur in our body that had no discreet meaning or function.
[pointer clicking] [upbeat music] Male nipples.
Nipples are extremely important structures.
They're important for breastfeeding, but why do I have a nipple? The male nipple is not useless.
It's highly stimulatable.
It is an erogenous zone, and these are not unimportant things.
By the way, for example, dogs and cats, they have multiple nipples.
There's a developmental ridge where nipples appear.
That's called the nipple line.
Nipples can appear all along a series of lines and you may find, for example, that somebody has a nipple all the way down in the pelvis or frequently in the armpit is a bit of a throwback.
We sometimes call it an atavism, and that term is usually used for something that has missed a few generations or something that pops up due to an interesting recombination of genes.
[pointer clicking] [upbeat music] Body hair.
We have hair, but our hair is not densely packed all over like our closest relatives.
Hair's prime function is for thermo-regulation and it played a very vital part when our ancestors came from forest-like environments, helping to keep heat in, when it got too hot, it kept heat away.
We lost our hair.
The weather was changing, things were shifting on the planes of Africa and our ancestors started to go to savannahs.
We were starting to be bipedal.
We were starting to be hunters.
We were starting to learn to run, and the loss of hair helped us in our active lifestyles with sweating.
The glands involved in sweating are much greater in us and it allows us to maintain our temperatures better.
Hair in our furry relatives had a purpose, with little babies being able to hang onto it.
We think we still maintain the little grasp reflex of newborns and that has been related back to it.
Certain areas in primates, particularly apes, became hairless early on, the face.
We do a lot of signaling with our face, so do chimps, so do gorillas.
We do retain some hair, on the top of our head, in our anal genital area and in our armpit area.
The brain has to be kept somewhat cool, hair up there aids in cooling the area and protecting it and that's why they seem to be retained.
[pointer clicking] [upbeat music] Arrector pili muscles produce the effect of goosebumps.
Here's a hair, here's an arrector pili.
What they do when they're stimulated is they contract.
They force the hair to stand erect.
It'll aid in the skin responding to some type of threat.
You'll get the hair stand up in the back of your neck.
When this occurs in our ancestors or your cat, the hair will become puffed up.
What does that puffiness do? It increases the appearance of your size so it's a display feature as well.
[pointer clicking] [upbeat music] Appendix.
This is called the cecum and this worm-like structure coming off of it is known as the appendix.
It's not useless, it's very useful.
Because it was removable the appendix was thought to be vestigial, and worse, bad, because it can swell.
What we've learned over the last few years is that the appendix has helpful bacteria and assists the gut when there are different problems and diseases.
[pointer clicking] [upbeat music] Coccyx.
The coccyx was our primitive tale.
Here we can look and see the vertebral column, the last three to five vertebrae that comprise the little funky thing that looks like a cuckoo's beak that's known as the coccyx.
This is a vestigial structure.
A distinguishing difference between great apes and monkeys is that none of the apes have tails.
Our ape ancestors do not locomote the same way a monkey does, swinging through a tree, they locomote differently.
The more these animals started to walk on all fours and then with us to walk bipedally, the tails were not useful any longer, and so it was pushed to the side, it became a vestige.
Every once in a while, pretty rare, due to an interesting recombination of genes, somebody is born with a tail.
[pointer clicking] [upbeat music] Pyramidalis muscle.
If you look in the mirror, you will notice your six pack.
I don't have a six pack anymore.
I never had a six pack.
This forms what's called the rectus sheath.
We have a muscle called the pyramidalis because of its shape.
At one time it was thought to give support to the abdomen.
Various monkeys are shown to have it, in us it's become very small and we're not really certain what it does.
We might have lost it because of our unique mode of bipedal locomotion.
Every time we've modified our locomotor behavior certain muscles enlarge, certain muscles become less.
We have a number of muscles in the body that have become largely vestigial.
They've shrunk.
Their function has shifted.
[pointer clicking] [upbeat music] Plantaris muscle.
We have a muscle in the leg which has become largely vestigial.
It's become just a tendon.
The plantaris comes from the area of the knee, comes from the femur and goes all the way down to have a separate tendon.
They are larger in the apes.
We have a number of muscles in the body that have become largely vestigial, they've shrunk.
Their function has shifted.
[pointer clicking] [upbeat music] Flat feet.
The human foot has been modified solely for the purposes of ambulation for running.
In order to do that, we have a double arch system.
One arch goes from front to back.
We call this a longitudinal arc and another go side to side to reduce muscle usage.
This is one reason why a chimp or a gorilla cannot ambulate or run the way we can.
They don't have double arches.
Their feet tend to be flatter and every once in a while we'll have somebody who genetically born with flat feet.
Here's an individual who is showing what we call pes planus, or flat feet.
The arches sink.
When the arches sink the muscles that go underneath it must fire so anybody with flat feet has to use muscles to try to pull those arches up, and that's very expensive.
I'll also tell you how you can damage your arches.
Nobody ever anticipated something like high heeled shoes.
They're dangerous, they're hurtful, and they work to destroy what nature has taken millions of years to create.
There have been body parts that have diminished greatly in function.
We have things that we thought may have been useless that we've discovered are very useful, so our body is the culmination of our history.
[gentle music] How the Disco Clam Uses Light to Fight Super-Strong Predators Architect Explains How Homes Could be 3D Printed on Mars and Earth Scientist Explains How Rare Genetics Allow Some to Sleep Only 4 Hours a Night Scientist Explains Unsinkable Metal That Could Prevent Disasters at Sea Is Invisibility Possible? An Inventor and a Physicist Explain Scientist Explains Why Her Lab Taught Rats to Drive Tiny Cars Mycologist Explains How a Slime Mold Can Solve Mazes How the Two-Hour Marathon Limit Was Broken Research Suggests Cats Like Their Owners as Much as Dogs Researcher Explains Deepfake Videos Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese Hurricane Hunter Explains How They Track and Predict Hurricanes Scientist Explains Viral Fish Cannon Video A Biohacker Explains Why He Turned His Leg Into a Hotspot Scientist Explains What Water Pooling in Kilauea's Volcanic Crater Means Bill Nye Explains the Science Behind Solar Sailing Vision Scientist Explains Why These Praying Mantises Are Wearing 3D Glasses Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology Scientist's Map Explains Climate Change Scientist Explains How Moon Mining Would Work Scientist Explains How She Captured Rare Footage of a Giant Squid Doctor Explains How Sunscreen Affects Your Body Stranger Things is Getting a New Mall! But Today Malls Are Dying. What Happened? The Limits of Human Endurance Might Be Our Guts Meet the First College Students to Launch a Rocket Into Space Scientist Explains Why Dogs Can Smell Better Than Robots A Harvard Professor Explains What the Avengers Can Teach Us About Philosophy NASA Twin Study: How Space Changes Our Bodies What the Black Hole Picture Means for Researchers Scientist Explains How to Levitate Objects With Sound Why Scientists and Artists Want The Blackest Substances on Earth Biologist Explains How Drones Catching Whale "Snot" Helps Research Researcher Explains Why Humans Can't Spot Real-Life Deepfake Masks Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About The Coronavirus VFX Artist Breaks Down This Year's Best Visual Effects Nominees How Doctors on Earth Treated a Blood Clot in Space Scientist Explains Why Some Cats Eat Human Corpses Voting Expert Explains How Voting Technology Will Impact the 2020 Election Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About Pandemics ER Doctor Explains How They're Handling Covid-19 Why This Taste Map Is Wrong Q&A: What's Next for the Coronavirus Pandemic? Why Captive Tigers Can’t Be Reintroduced to the Wild How Covid-19 Immunity Compares to Other Diseases 5 Mistakes to Avoid as We Try to Stop Covid-19 How This Emergency Ventilator Could Keep Covid-19 Patients Alive Why NASA Made a Helicopter for Mars Theoretical Physicist Breaks Down the Marvel Multiverse Former NASA Astronaut Explains Jeff Bezos's Space Flight Physics Student Breaks Down Gymnastics Physics What Do Cities Look Like Under a Microscope? Inside the Largest Bitcoin Mine in The U.S.
How Caffeine Has Fueled History How Mushroom Time-Lapses Are Filmed Why You’ll Fail the Milk Crate Challenge Why Vegan Cheese Doesn't Melt How 250 Cameras Filmed Neill Blomkamp's Demonic How Meme Detectives Stop NFT Fraud How Disney Designed a Robotic Spider-Man How Online Conspiracy Groups Compare to Cults Dune Costume Designers Break Down Dune’s Stillsuits Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' Why Scientists Are Stress Testing Tardigrades Every Prototype that Led to a Realistic Prosthetic Arm Why the Toilet Needs an Upgrade How Animals Are Evolving Because of Climate Change How Stop-Motion Movies Are Animated at Aardman Astronomer Explains How NASA Detects Asteroids Are We Living In A Simulation? Inside the Journey of a Shipping Container (And Why the Supply Chain Is So Backed Up) The Science of Slow Aging How Nose Swabs Detect New Covid-19 Strains Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes The Science Behind Elon Musk’s Neuralink Brain Chip Every Prototype to Make a Humanoid Robot Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work A Timeline of Russian Cyberattacks on Ukraine VFX Artist Breaks Down Oscar-Nominated CGI Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now We Invented the Perfect WIRED Autocomplete Glue How Everything Everywhere All at Once's Visual Effects Were Made How Dogs Coevolved with Humans How an Architect Redesigns NYC Streets Viking Expert Breaks Down The Northman Weapons J. Kenji López-Alt Breaks Down the Science of Stir-Fry How A.I. Is Changing Hollywood How Trash Goes From Garbage Cans to Landfills Veterinarian Explains How to Prevent Pet Separation Anxiety The Science Behind Genetically Modified Mosquitoes How Scientists & Filmmakers Brought Prehistoric Planet's Dinosaurs to Life All the Ways Google Gets Street View Images How Public Cameras Recognize and Track You How the Nuro Robotic Delivery Car Was Built Biologist Explains the Unexpected Origins of Feathers in Fashion Surgeons Break Down Separating Conjoined Twins Former Air Force Pilot Breaks Down UFO Footage Bug Expert Explains Why Cicadas Are So Loud The Best of CES 2021 Health Expert Explains What You Need to Know About Quarantines Scientist Explains How People Might Hibernate Like Bears Could a Chernobyl Level Nuclear Disaster Happen in the US? Neuroscientist Explains ASMR's Effects on the Brain & The Body Why Top Scientists Are Pretending an Asteroid is Headed for Earth Epidemiologist Answers Common Monkeypox Questions Bill Nye Breaks Down Webb Telescope Space Images How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Every Trick a Pro GeoGuessr Player Uses to Win How NASA Biologists Plan to Grow Plants on the Moon How FIFA Graphics & Gameplay Are Evolving (1993 - 2023) How a Vet Performs Dangerous Surgeries on Wild Animals This Heart is Not Human How Entomologists Use Insects to Solve Crimes Former NASA Astronaut Breaks Down a Rocket Launch Chess Pro Explains How to Spot Cheaters Why Billionaires Are Actually Ruining the Economy How to Keep Your New Year’s Resolutions for More Than a Week The Biology Behind The Last of Us English Teacher Grades Homework By ChatGPT All the Ways a Cold Plunge Affects the Body Spy Historian Debunks Chinese Spy Balloon Theories A.I. Tries 20 Jobs | WIRED Mathematician Breaks Down the Best Ways to Win the Lottery Why Music Festivals Sound Better Than Ever Pro Interpreters vs. AI Challenge: Who Translates Faster and Better? Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
