Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Matt Burgess Senior writer Matt Burgess is a senior writer at WIRED focused on information security, privacy, and data regulation in Europe. He graduated from the University of Sheffield with a degree in journalism and now lives in London. Send tips to Matt_Burgess@wired.com.
X Security A Spy Agency Leaked People's Data Online—Then the Data Was Stolen Security Police Use of Face Recognition Is Sweeping the UK Security Internet Blackouts in Gaza Are a New Weapon in the Israel-Hamas War Security This Cheap Hacking Device Can Crash Your iPhone With Pop-Ups Security The Destruction of Gaza’s Internet Is Complete Security Elon Musk Mocked Ukraine, and Russian Trolls Went Wild Security The AI-Generated Child Abuse Nightmare Is Here Security They Supported Air Strike Victims. Then They Were Doxed and Arrested Security Deepfake Porn Is Out of Control Security Activist Hackers Are Racing Into the Israel-Hamas War—for Both Sides Security Israel’s Failure to Stop the Hamas Attack Shows the Danger of Too Much Surveillance Security The Team Helping Women Fight Digital Domestic Abuse Security Your Cheap Android TV Streaming Box May Have a Dangerous Backdoor Business This Website Exposes the Truth About Soaring Food Prices Security The Biggest Hack of 2023 Keeps Getting Bigger Security Chinese Hackers Are Hiding in Routers in the US and Japan Security Generative AI’s Biggest Security Flaw Is Not Easy to Fix Security The Strange Afterlife of Wagner’s Yevgeny Prigozhin Security Unmasking Trickbot, One of the World’s Top Cybercrime Gangs Security The Weird, Big-Money World of Cybercrime Writing Contests More Stories Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
