Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Paresh Dave Paresh Dave is a senior writer for WIRED, covering the inner workings of big tech companies. He writes about how apps and gadgets are built and about their impacts, while giving voice to the stories of the underappreciated and disadvantaged.
 He was previously a reporter for Reuters and the Los Angeles Times , and an investigative reporting fellow at the Maynard Institute for Journalism Education. His work has tackled topics as varied as esports , Olympics baseball , and diversity and ethics in the tech industry. His team reporting on Snapchat’s IPO was recognized by the Society for Advancing Business Editing and Writing. He is a lifelong Californian.
Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Business Humane’s Ai Pin is a $700 Smartphone Alternative You Wear All Day Business YouTube’s Crackdown Spurs Record Uninstalls of Ad Blockers Business A Jury Will Decide If Google's App Store Is an Unjust Monopoly Business Rocket Alert Apps Warn Israelis of Incoming Attacks While Gaza Is Left in the Dark Business The 5 Instagram Features That US States Say Ruin Teens’ Mental Health Business Google’s AI Is Making Traffic Lights More Efficient and Less Annoying Business Generative AI Is Coming for Sales Execs’ Jobs—and They’re Celebrating Business AI Algorithms Are Biased Against Skin With Yellow Hues Business Google Mourns Veteran Engineer Luiz André Barroso, Who Invented the Modern Data Center Business Meet the Law Geeks Exposing Google’s Secretive Antitrust Trial Business X Challenger Pebble Thinks AI-Generated Posts Can Help Lure Users Away From Elon Musk Business The US Is Finally Challenging Google's Search Dominance Business Pinterest’s New Algorithms Want You to See Every Body Type Business Nvidia Chip Shortages Leave AI Startups Scrambling for Computing Power Business Hands On With Google Search’s Answer to ChatGPT Business Meta Just Proved People Hate Chronological Feeds Business Meta’s Election Research Opens More Questions Than It Answers Business It’s Getting Harder for the Government to Secretly Flag Your Social Posts Business The EU Urges the US to Join the Fight to Regulate AI More Stories Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
