The Atlantic Passes Experience Speakers Agenda Underwriters Contact WATCH NOW The Atlantic Festival 2023 The Atlantic Festival brings together influential and provocative political, cultural, business, tech, and climate leaders for two full days of in-depth interviews, timely forums, intimate breakout sessions, book talks, screenings, and networking opportunities.
Our writers and moderators will host a lively exchange of complex ideas, addressing the most significant issues of our time with today’s boldest thinkers as we bring The Atlantic ’s journalism to life onstage.
In-person and virtual passes are available now.
See agenda below.
Becoming a subscriber is the best way to experience The Atlantic Festival in person. Subscribers enjoy 30 percent off in-person passes, reserved seating, and other benefits.
Sign Up to Receive Updates Subject to The Atlantic's Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.
Passes Festival Pass Admission to all in-person sessions, including the Ideas Stage, screenings, book talks, happy hours, and more Professional Pass (Sold Out) Additional networking, Festival Lounge access, reserved seats at the Ideas Stage, merchandise, and more (limited availability) Virtual Pass Livestream the main-stage programming for free from anywhere in the world Group Sales Bring your colleagues, family, or cohort to The Atlantic Festival.
JOIN US FOR TWO DAYS OF CAN’T-MISS EVENTS Two full days with more than 10 events each day. Seventy-plus speakers, happy hours, thousands of attendees to meet and have meaningful connections and conversations with. An experience worth investing in that you won’t want to miss. The Festival Pass has you covered — $200.
Tickets are nonrefundable, and seating is first come, first served.
Speakers Hillary Rodham Clinton Former Secretary of State and United States Senator Will Hurd Former Representative, Texas Twitter Kerry Washington Actor, Director, Producer, Activist, and Author Jeffrey Goldberg Editor in Chief, The Atlantic Twitter Mira Murati Chief Technology Officer, OpenAI Twitter Jake Tapper Author, All the Demons Are Here ; Anchor and Chief Washington Correspondent, CNN Spike Lee Filmmaker Antony Blinken U.S. Secretary of State Twitter Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie Author Rohit Aggarwala Commissioner, Department of Environmental Protection and Chief Climate Officer, City of New York Tim Alberta Staff Writer, The Atlantic Twitter Jacqueline Alemany Congressional Investigations Reporter, The Washington Post Twitter Peter Ambler Executive Director and Co-Founder, Giffords Twitter Donnel Baird Founder and CEO, BlocPower Twitter Ross Andersen Staff Writer, The Atlantic Twitter Anne Applebaum Staff Writer, The Atlantic Representative Nanette Barragán (D-CA) Underwriter Session Laura Barrón-López White House Correspondent, PBS NewsHour Twitter Xavier Becerra Secretary, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Twitter Julie Beck Senior Editor, The Atlantic Twitter Gal Beckerman Senior Editor, The Atlantic Twitter Omi Bell Founder and CEO, Black Girl Ventures Twitter Melissa Ben-Ishay CEO and Co-Founder, Baked by Melissa Twitter Richard Bonneau Vice President, Prescient Design, Genentech Underwriter Session Arthur C. Brooks Contributing Writer, The Atlantic Twitter Ronald Brownstein Senior Editor, The Atlantic Twitter Lonnie G. Bunch III Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution Yasmin Cader Deputy Legal Director, ACLU, and Director, Trone Center for Justice and Equality Twitter Gilbert Campbell Founder and CEO, Volt Energy Utility Twitter Representative Joaquin Castro (D-TX) Kyunghyun Cho Senior Director of Frontier Research, Prescient Design, Genentech Underwriter Session McKay Coppins Staff Writer, The Atlantic Nancy Cordes Chief White House Correspondent, CBS News Governor Spencer Cox Utah Chris Cummiskey Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial and Customer Solutions Officer, Southern Company Underwriter Session R.J. Cutler Director and Producer Shreya Dave Co-founder and CEO, Via Separations Twitter Jerusalem Demsas Staff Writer, The Atlantic Caitlin Dickerson Staff Writer, The Atlantic Twitter John Dickerson Anchor, CBS News Prime Time , and Chief Political Analyst, CBS News Andrea Ducas Vice President of Health Policy, Center for American Progress Twitter Jamie Ducharme Health Correspondent, Time Twitter Claudine Ebeid Executive Producer of Audio, The Atlantic Twitter Jonathan Elkind Senior Research Scholar, Columbia University’s Center on Global Energy Policy Leah Ellis CEO and Co-Founder, Sublime Systems Twitter Angel Ellis Director, Mvskoke Media Franklin Foer Staff Writer, The Atlantic Aneesa Folds Cast, freestyle+ Twitter Carla Frisch Acting Executive Director, Office of Policy, U.S. Department of Energy David Frum Staff Writer, The Atlantic Megan Garber Staff Writer, The Atlantic Gabby Giffords Former Congresswoman and Co-Founder, Giffords Twitter Celena Gill CEO, Frères Branchiaux Retail Enterprises Twitter Bria Gillum Senior Program Officer, Criminal Justice, MacArthur Foundation Underwriter Session Mary R. Grealy President, Healthcare Leadership Council Underwriter Session Lauren Groff Author, The Vaster Wilds Twitter Dennis Hancock Senior Vice President and Head of Digital Health, Medicines, and AI, Pfizer Underwriter Session Adam Harris Staff Writer, The Atlantic Twitter Hugh Herr Professor of Media Arts and Sciences, MIT Media Lab Jemele Hill Contributing Writer, The Atlantic Twitter Ivor Braden Horn Chief Health Equity Officer, Google Twitter Marisa Hughes Environmental Resilience Research Lead, Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory Raúl Ibañez Senior Vice President, On-Field Operations, MLB Mateo Jaramillo Co-Founder and CEO, Form Energy Underwriter Session Weijia Jiang Senior White House Correspondent, CBS News Alencia Johnson Founder, 1063 West Broad and Senior Adviser, Biden-Harris 2020 campaign Twitter Tamara Keith White House Correspondent, NPR Twitter Toby Kiers Executive Director, Society for the Protection of Underground Networks Twitter Karlie Kloss Supermodel, Entrepreneur, and Philanthropist Underwriter Session Rebecca Landsberry-Baker Director, Bad Press Sarah Laskow Senior Editor, The Atlantic Twitter Mark Leibovich Staff Writer, The Atlantic Twitter Helen Lewis Staff Writer, The Atlantic Twitter Shirley Li Staff Writer, The Atlantic Twitter Sarah Longwell Publisher, The Bulwark Twitter Annie Lowrey Staff Writer, The Atlantic Mike Madsen Strategic Adviser to the Director and former Deputy Director, Defense Innovation Unit, U.S. Department of Defense Aamir Malik Executive Vice President and Chief Business Innovation Officer, Pfizer Underwriter Session Michael Mann Director, Penn Center for Science, Sustainability and the Media and Author, Our Fragile Moment Twitter Debra Mathews Associate Director for Research and Programs, Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics Alice McKown Publisher & CRO, The Atlantic Underwriter Session Karhlton F. Moore Director, Bureau of Justice Assistance, U.S. Department of Justice Russell Moore Editor in Chief, Christianity Today Peter Moskos Professor, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, and Former Baltimore City Police Officer Richard G. Newell President and CEO, Resources for the Future Twitter Vann R. Newkirk II Senior Editor, The Atlantic Jen O’Malley Dillon Deputy Chief of Staff, Biden-Harris 2020 Campaign Manager, Political Strategist Anita Otubu Senior Director, Universal Energy Facility (SEforALL) Christian Paige Emmy-Nominated Spoken-Word Poet, Professional Speaker, and Educator Underwriter Session Joe Peeler Director, Bad Press Nancy Pelosi Speaker Emerita of the U.S. House of Representatives Twitter Rach Pike Co-Founder, As You Are DC Twitter Elaina Plott Calabro Staff Writer, The Atlantic Twitter Asahi Pompey Global Head of Corporate Engagement, Goldman Sachs Underwriter Session Kimberly Powell Vice President of Healthcare, NVIDIA Underwriter Session Laurene Powell Jobs Founder and President, Emerson Collective Rena Priest Award-Winning Poet and Sixth Washington State Poet Laureate Underwriter Session Natalie Quillian Deputy Chief of Staff, Biden-Harris 2020 Deputy Campaign Manager, Political Strategist Anastacia-Renee Queer Writer, Educator, Interdisciplinary Artist, Speaker, and Podcaster Underwriter Session Emi Reyes CEO, Latino Economic Development Center Robert Rooks CEO, REFORM Alliance Rebecca Rosen Senior Editor, The Atlantic Hanna Rosin Senior Editor, The Atlantic , and Host, Radio Atlantic Twitter Christina Ruffini Correspondent, CBS News Melanie Rubin Cast, freestyle+ Twitter Sam Schaeffer CEO and Executive Director, Center for Employment Opportunities Governor Josh Shapiro Pennsylvania Hana S. Sharif Artistic Director, Arena Stage Aasma Shaukat Director, GI Outcomes Research, NYU Langone Health Twitter Sharyn Skeeter Editor, Poet and Author, Dancing With Langston and What’s Next? Short Fiction in Time of Change Underwriter Session Clint Smith Staff Writer, The Atlantic Twitter Evan Smith Contributor, The Atlantic , and Senior Adviser, Emerson Collective Robert Stone CEO, City of Hope, and Helen and Morgan Chu Chief Executive Officer Distinguished Chair Underwriter Session Cheryl Strayed Author Twitter Elliot Stultz Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, Allstate Underwriter Session Mustafa Suleyman Co-founder and CEO, Inflection AI Underwriter Session Jake Sullivan U.S. National Security Adviser Morgan Sword Executive Vice President, Baseball Operations, MLB Amir Tarighat Co-Founder and CEO, Agency Bhumika Tharoor Managing Editor, The Atlantic Aswad Thomas Vice President, Alliance for Safety and Justice, and National Director for Crime Survivors for Safety and Justice Underwriter Session Nicholas Thompson CEO, The Atlantic Twitter Underwriter Session Andrea Valdez Managing Editor, The Atlantic Twitter Anthony Veneziale Cast, freestyle+ Twitter Cleo Wade Author and Poet, Remember Love Robert Waldinger Professor of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, and Author Evelyn N. Wang Director of ARPA-E, Department of Energy Twitter Anne White Executive Vice President and President of Lilly Neuroscience, Eli Lilly and Company Underwriter Session Maya Wiley President and CEO, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights Twitter Chris Womack President and CEO, Southern Company Underwriter Session Ramunda Lark Young Owner and Co-Founder, MahoganyBooks Twitter Ali Zaidi White House National Climate Adviser Ellen Zhong Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Princeton University Underwriter Session LIVE AT THE WHARF In partnership with Washington, D.C.’s reimagined waterfront neighborhood The Wharf—home of The Atlantic ’s new D.C. headquarters—and the many restaurants and cultural and community organizations in the area, we look forward to this can’t-miss opportunity to experience The Atlantic ’s journalism come to life.
See agenda below.
Pick up signed copies of books by participating authors from the official festival bookseller, Politics and Prose.
 This year we are proud to partner with Martha’s Table , addressing food insecurity by helping to feed over 250 community members each day. Please join us in supporting these and other local organizations.
Agenda Sep. 28-29 Buy a pass and then register for the sessions you wish to attend. Please note that if a session is at capacity, we will have a stand-by line in person at the event.
Format: Day One Thu, Sep 28 Day Two Fri, Sep 29 Ideas Stage, featuring Nancy Pelosi, Kerry Washington, Antony Blinken, and more Virtual / In-Person Summary The Atlantic Festival, now in its 15th year, is the preeminent live exploration of The Atlantic ’s journalism. Join us on the Ideas Stage to unpack the most consequential issues shaping our changing nation. Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi will be in conversation with The Atlantic ’s editor in chief, Jeffrey Goldberg , to discuss the future of global and domestic democracy; the actor, producer, and activist Kerry Washington will join Clint Smith , an Atlantic staff writer, to discuss her deeply personal and highly anticipated new memoir, Thicker than Water ; Jeffrey Goldberg will also interview Secretary of State Antony Blinken about the future of American foreign policy; and many more coming soon.
Duration 2 hours 15 minutes Location Arena Stage Speakers Kerry Washington Actor, Director, Producer, Activist, and Author Jeffrey Goldberg Editor in Chief, The Atlantic Antony Blinken U.S. Secretary of State Nancy Pelosi Speaker Emerita of the U.S. House of Representatives Clint Smith Staff Writer, The Atlantic Tracks Business, Climate, Culture, Health, Politics, Progress + Tech, Race + Identity The Big Story: Preventing Gun Violence In-Person Summary Join former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords and Peter Ambler , the executive director of Giffords: Courage to Fight Gun Violence, for a timely conversation about the urgent need to address gun violence in America.
Duration 30 minutes Location Pier Stage Speakers Peter Ambler Executive Director and Co-Founder, Giffords Gabby Giffords Former Congresswoman and Co-Founder, Giffords Tracks Culture, Politics The Big Story: A Conversation With National Climate Adviser Ali Zaidi In-Person Summary The rising temperatures, biodiversity loss, energy strains, and air, water, and plastic pollution of the climate crisis are pushing us toward a global tipping point. White House National Climate Adviser Ali Zaidi joins Atlantic managing editor Bhumika Tharoor to explore strategies that modernize the power grid and rebuild our nation’s infrastructure, and the scalable new technologies and nature-based solutions being implemented by this administration.
Duration 30 minutes Location Dockmaster Speakers Bhumika Tharoor Managing Editor, The Atlantic Ali Zaidi White House National Climate Adviser Tracks Climate Leaps by Bayer Presents: Mind to Machine* Underwritten by Leaps by Bayer In-Person Summary This session is produced by our underwriter and is independent of the Atlantic ’s editorial staff.
Today, one in five adults in the U.S. struggles with their mental health, and nearly half of the country’s high-school students experience persistent feelings of hopelessness. The advent of AI-based diagnostic tools and chatbots could result in many more people accessing crucial therapeutic services. At the same time, humans are wired for connection—centering that fact is the only way the technology will be effective when it comes to matters of the mind. In a conversation facilitated by Leaps by Bayer, Nick Thompson sits down with two prominent voices in the tech space, Karlie Kloss and Mustafa Suleyman , to explore the promises and perils of entrusting our psychological health and well-being to machines.
Duration 45 minutes Location Pearl Street Warehouse Underwriters Speakers Karlie Kloss * Supermodel, Entrepreneur, and Philanthropist Mustafa Suleyman * Co-founder and CEO, Inflection AI Nicholas Thompson * CEO, The Atlantic Tracks Health, Progress + Tech * This session is produced by our underwriter and is independent of the Atlantic’s editorial staff.
The Big Story: The Future of American Conservatism In-Person Summary The spectrum of the political right is broad—social conservatives, libertarians, MAGA supporters, populists, and RINOs—and the issues prioritized by each group vary largely. Led by senior editor Rebecca Rosen , Atlantic journalists Helen Lewis , David Frum , and Tom Nichols explore the evolution of our political parties and the future of American conservatism. What defines the Republican Party today? And what are the animating forces galvanizing conservative voters in 2024? Duration 30 minutes Location Dockmaster Speakers Anne Applebaum Staff Writer, The Atlantic David Frum Staff Writer, The Atlantic Helen Lewis Staff Writer, The Atlantic Rebecca Rosen Senior Editor, The Atlantic Tracks Politics Ideas Stage, featuring Joaquin Castro, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Hakeem Jeffries, and more Virtual / In-Person Summary The Atlantic Festival, now in its 15th year, is the preeminent live exploration of The Atlantic ’s journalism. Ideas Stage interviews tackle the most consequential issues shaping our changing nation. This session includes Founder and President of Emerson Collective Laurene Powell in conversation with House Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries.
 Representative Joaquin Castro discusses the urgent need to address border security and immigration with Pulitzer Prize–winning Atlantic staff writer Caitlin Dickerson.
 Pennsylvania Governor Josh Shapiro talks about governing during this transformational time with CBS News’s John Dickerson.
 Writer Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie has a powerful conversation about freedom of expression with Atlantic senior editor Gal Beckerman.
Duration 2 hours 15 minutes Location Arena Stage Speakers Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie Author Gal Beckerman Senior Editor, The Atlantic Representative Joaquin Castro (D-TX) Caitlin Dickerson Staff Writer, The Atlantic John Dickerson Anchor, CBS News Prime Time , and Chief Political Analyst, CBS News Laurene Powell Jobs Founder and President, Emerson Collective Governor Josh Shapiro Pennsylvania Tracks Business, Climate, Culture, Health, Politics, Progress + Tech, Race + Identity The Climate Summit: Building a More Sustainable Future Underwritten by Allstate In-Person Summary The stakes couldn’t be higher. Finding ways to mitigate and adapt to climate change is the opportunity and challenge of the moment.
The Atlantic will assemble policy makers, climate innovators, scientists, and business leaders to address today’s most urgent climate challenges and offer solutions for a more resilient future.
Duration 1 hour 30 minutes Location Dockmaster Underwriters Speakers Rohit Aggarwala Commissioner, Department of Environmental Protection and Chief Climate Officer, City of New York Gilbert Campbell Founder and CEO, Volt Energy Utility Nancy Cordes Chief White House Correspondent, CBS News Claudine Ebeid Executive Producer of Audio, The Atlantic Carla Frisch Acting Executive Director, Office of Policy, U.S. Department of Energy Marisa Hughes Environmental Resilience Research Lead, Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory Toby Kiers Executive Director, Society for the Protection of Underground Networks Sarah Laskow Senior Editor, The Atlantic Michael Mann Director, Penn Center for Science, Sustainability and the Media and Author, Our Fragile Moment Elliot Stultz * Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, Allstate Tracks Climate, Progress + Tech * This session is produced by our underwriter and is independent of the Atlantic’s editorial staff.
Women of Washington Underwritten by Eli Lilly In-Person Summary Women in leadership roles in Washington, D.C., face unique challenges and exciting opportunities to make a difference. In this installment of Women of Washington, The Atlantic brings together women in the administration, the halls of Congress, and the media who are reshaping the D.C. landscape while making their mark on the future of our nation.
Duration 1 hour 30 minutes Location Pearl Street Warehouse Underwriters Speakers Jacqueline Alemany Congressional Investigations Reporter, The Washington Post Representative Nanette Barragán * (D-CA) Laura Barrón-López White House Correspondent, PBS NewsHour Weijia Jiang Senior White House Correspondent, CBS News Alencia Johnson Founder, 1063 West Broad and Senior Adviser, Biden-Harris 2020 campaign Tamara Keith White House Correspondent, NPR Sarah Longwell Publisher, The Bulwark Jen O’Malley Dillon Deputy Chief of Staff, Biden-Harris 2020 Campaign Manager, Political Strategist Elaina Plott Calabro Staff Writer, The Atlantic Natalie Quillian Deputy Chief of Staff, Biden-Harris 2020 Deputy Campaign Manager, Political Strategist Anne White * Executive Vice President and President of Lilly Neuroscience, Eli Lilly and Company Tracks Culture, Politics * This session is produced by our underwriter and is independent of the Atlantic’s editorial staff.
Visit Seattle Presents: Strength and Poetry—Elevating Diverse Voices* Underwritten by Visit Seattle In-Person Summary This session is produced by our underwriter and is independent of the Atlantic ’s editorial staff.
This session offers the stage to three distinguished, Seattle-based poets who share diverse perspectives in both topic and lyrical style. From anti-racism to the LGBTQ community, Indigenous experience to the beauty of the Pacific Northwest, this session will ignite conversations and offer inspiration that can continue to shape our collective culture for the better. Hosted by fellow Seattleite Sharyn Skeeter (writer, poet, novelist, and former fiction/poetry/book-review editor at Essence ), this session showcases the Emerald City as a UNESCO City of Literature and underscores its commitment to equity and inclusion.
Duration 45 minutes Location Pier Stage Underwriters Speakers Christian Paige * Emmy-Nominated Spoken-Word Poet, Professional Speaker, and Educator Rena Priest * Award-Winning Poet and Sixth Washington State Poet Laureate Anastacia-Renee * Queer Writer, Educator, Interdisciplinary Artist, Speaker, and Podcaster Sharyn Skeeter * Editor, Poet and Author, Dancing With Langston and What’s Next? Short Fiction in Time of Change Tracks Culture * This session is produced by our underwriter and is independent of the Atlantic’s editorial staff.
The Big Story: The Future of Major League Baseball In-Person Summary Join Atlantic staff writer Mark Leibovich in conversation with Major League Baseball executives Morgan Sword and Raúl Ibañez for a discussion on the league’s recent innovations and the future of America’s pastime.
Duration 30 minutes Location Dockmaster Speakers Raúl Ibañez Senior Vice President, On-Field Operations, MLB Mark Leibovich Staff Writer, The Atlantic Morgan Sword Executive Vice President, Baseball Operations, MLB Tracks Culture Happy Hour In-Person Summary Join us for an open bar, passed appetizers, and snacks. Network and unwind outdoors on the District Pier before evening programming gets under way. Open to Pass Holders only, no additional reservations are required. You must be 21+ to attend.
Duration 1 hour 30 minutes Atlantic Watch: Big Vape: The Rise and Fall of Juul In-Person Summary Netflix will debut its new documentary series Big Vape: The Rise and Fall of Juul , directed by R. J. Cutler. The series, based on the book Big Vape: The Incendiary Rise of Juul , by the Time correspondent Jamie Ducharme, chronicles Juul’s path from a scrappy tech start-up to a multibillion-dollar tobacco company whose high-nicotine-concentration and flavored products helped spark what top health authorities labeled an epidemic of youth addiction. Join us on the Pier and experience the screening of the first episode of the documentary series before its fall global premiere on Netflix. Immediately following the screening, enjoy a conversation with director R. J. Cutler and author Jamie Ducharme , led by the Atlantic staff writer Shirley Li.
Watch the Big Vape: The Rise and Fall of Juul trailer HERE.
Duration 2 hours Location Pier Stage Speakers R.J. Cutler Director and Producer Jamie Ducharme Health Correspondent, Time Shirley Li Staff Writer, The Atlantic Tracks Culture Subscribe to The Atlantic Unlock unlimited access to The Atlantic, including exclusive events for subscribers. Join us today and help ensure a bright future for independent journalism.
underwriters Presenting Supporting Contributing Exclusive Broadcast Media Partner Event Details The Wharf in Washington, D.C. or Virtual Maine Ave and Water St SW Washington, DC 20024 September 28 - 29, 2023 Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn More About This Event FAQs Frequently Asked Questions Wayfinding Campus Map Benefits Special Offers for Attendees Questions? Sponsorship Underwriter Opportunities Audience Audience Engagement & Accessibility Needs Speakers Speaker Pitches Related Events The Atlantic Festival 2022 September 2022 Virtual Event The Atlantic Festival 2021 September 2021 Virtual Event The Atlantic Festival 2020 September 2020 Virtual Event www.theatlantic.com Get In Contact Help Center Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Do Not Sell My Information Follow Us: Facebook Instagram YouTube Twitter LinkedIn Attendance at our events constitutes acceptance of our Code of Conduct.
AtlanticLIVE Copyright (c) 2023 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.
The Atlantic Festival brings together influential and provocative political, cultural, business, tech, and climate leaders for two full days of in-depth interviews, timely forums, intimate breakout sessions, book talks, screenings, and networking opportunities.
Our writers and moderators will host a lively exchange of complex ideas, addressing the most significant issues of our time with today’s boldest thinkers as we bring The Atlantic ’s journalism to life onstage.
In-person and virtual passes are available now.
"https://www.theatlantic.com/live/atlantic-festival-2023/#agenda\">See agenda below.
The Atlantic Festival brings together influential and provocative political, cultural, business, tech, and climate leaders for two full days of in-depth interviews, timely forums, intimate breakout sessions, book talks, screenings, and networking opportunities.
"https://accounts.theatlantic.com/products/onyx/?source=taflandingpage\">Becoming a subscriber is the best way to experience The Atlantic Festival in person. Subscribers enjoy 30 percent off in-person passes, reserved seating, and other benefits.
Former Secretary of State and United States Senator Former Representative, Texas Actor, Director, Producer, Activist, and Author Editor in Chief, The Atlantic Chief Technology Officer, OpenAI Author, All the Demons Are Here ; Anchor and Chief Washington Correspondent, CNN Filmmaker U.S. Secretary of State Author Commissioner, Department of Environmental Protection and Chief Climate Officer, City of New York Staff Writer, The Atlantic Congressional Investigations Reporter, The Washington Post Executive Director and Co-Founder, Giffords Founder and CEO, BlocPower Staff Writer, The Atlantic Staff Writer, The Atlantic (D-CA) White House Correspondent, PBS NewsHour Secretary, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Senior Editor, The Atlantic Senior Editor, The Atlantic Founder and CEO, Black Girl Ventures CEO and Co-Founder, Baked by Melissa Vice President, Prescient Design, Genentech Contributing Writer, The Atlantic Senior Editor, The Atlantic Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution Deputy Legal Director, ACLU, and Director, Trone Center for Justice and Equality Founder and CEO, Volt Energy Utility (D-TX) Senior Director of Frontier Research, Prescient Design, Genentech Staff Writer, The Atlantic Chief White House Correspondent, CBS News Utah Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial and Customer Solutions Officer, Southern Company Director and Producer Co-founder and CEO, Via Separations Staff Writer, The Atlantic Staff Writer, The Atlantic Anchor, CBS News Prime Time , and Chief Political Analyst, CBS News Vice President of Health Policy, Center for American Progress Health Correspondent, Time Executive Producer of Audio, The Atlantic Senior Research Scholar, Columbia University’s Center on Global Energy Policy CEO and Co-Founder, Sublime Systems Director, Mvskoke Media Staff Writer, The Atlantic Cast, freestyle+ Acting Executive Director, Office of Policy, U.S. Department of Energy Staff Writer, The Atlantic Staff Writer, The Atlantic Former Congresswoman and Co-Founder, Giffords CEO, Frères Branchiaux Retail Enterprises Senior Program Officer, Criminal Justice, MacArthur Foundation President, Healthcare Leadership Council Author, The Vaster Wilds Senior Vice President and Head of Digital Health, Medicines, and AI, Pfizer Staff Writer, The Atlantic Professor of Media Arts and Sciences, MIT Media Lab Contributing Writer, The Atlantic Chief Health Equity Officer, Google Environmental Resilience Research Lead, Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory Senior Vice President, On-Field Operations, MLB Co-Founder and CEO, Form Energy Senior White House Correspondent, CBS News Founder, 1063 West Broad and Senior Adviser, Biden-Harris 2020 campaign White House Correspondent, NPR Executive Director, Society for the Protection of Underground Networks Supermodel, Entrepreneur, and Philanthropist Director, Bad Press Senior Editor, The Atlantic Staff Writer, The Atlantic Staff Writer, The Atlantic Staff Writer, The Atlantic Publisher, The Bulwark Staff Writer, The Atlantic Strategic Adviser to the Director and former Deputy Director, Defense Innovation Unit, U.S. Department of Defense Executive Vice President and Chief Business Innovation Officer, Pfizer Director, Penn Center for Science, Sustainability and the Media and Author, Our Fragile Moment Associate Director for Research and Programs, Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics Publisher & CRO, The Atlantic Director, Bureau of Justice Assistance, U.S. Department of Justice Editor in Chief, Christianity Today Professor, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, and Former Baltimore City Police Officer President and CEO, Resources for the Future Senior Editor, The Atlantic Deputy Chief of Staff, Biden-Harris 2020 Campaign Manager, Political Strategist Senior Director, Universal Energy Facility (SEforALL) Emmy-Nominated Spoken-Word Poet, Professional Speaker, and Educator Director, Bad Press Speaker Emerita of the U.S. House of Representatives Co-Founder, As You Are DC Staff Writer, The Atlantic Global Head of Corporate Engagement, Goldman Sachs Vice President of Healthcare, NVIDIA Founder and President, Emerson Collective Award-Winning Poet and Sixth Washington State Poet Laureate Deputy Chief of Staff, Biden-Harris 2020 Deputy Campaign Manager, Political Strategist Queer Writer, Educator, Interdisciplinary Artist, Speaker, and Podcaster CEO, Latino Economic Development Center CEO, REFORM Alliance Senior Editor, The Atlantic Senior Editor, The Atlantic , and Host, Radio Atlantic Correspondent, CBS News Cast, freestyle+ CEO and Executive Director, Center for Employment Opportunities Pennsylvania Artistic Director, Arena Stage Director, GI Outcomes Research, NYU Langone Health Editor, Poet and Author, Dancing With Langston and What’s Next? Short Fiction in Time of Change Staff Writer, The Atlantic Contributor, The Atlantic , and Senior Adviser, Emerson Collective CEO, City of Hope, and Helen and Morgan Chu Chief Executive Officer Distinguished Chair Author Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, Allstate Co-founder and CEO, Inflection AI U.S. National Security Adviser Executive Vice President, Baseball Operations, MLB Co-Founder and CEO, Agency Managing Editor, The Atlantic Vice President, Alliance for Safety and Justice, and National Director for Crime Survivors for Safety and Justice CEO, The Atlantic Managing Editor, The Atlantic Cast, freestyle+ Author and Poet, Remember Love Professor of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, and Author Director of ARPA-E, Department of Energy Executive Vice President and President of Lilly Neuroscience, Eli Lilly and Company President and CEO, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights President and CEO, Southern Company Owner and Co-Founder, MahoganyBooks White House National Climate Adviser Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Princeton University The Atlantic Festival, now in its 15th year, is the preeminent live exploration of The Atlantic ’s journalism. Join us on the Ideas Stage to unpack the most consequential issues shaping our changing nation. Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi will be in conversation with The Atlantic ’s editor in chief, Jeffrey Goldberg , to discuss the future of global and domestic democracy; the actor, producer, and activist Kerry Washington will join Clint Smith , an Atlantic staff writer, to discuss her deeply personal and highly anticipated new memoir, Thicker than Water ; Jeffrey Goldberg will also interview Secretary of State Antony Blinken about the future of American foreign policy; and many more coming soon.
Join former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords and Peter Ambler , the executive director of Giffords: Courage to Fight Gun Violence, for a timely conversation about the urgent need to address gun violence in America.
The rising temperatures, biodiversity loss, energy strains, and air, water, and plastic pollution of the climate crisis are pushing us toward a global tipping point. White House National Climate Adviser Ali Zaidi joins Atlantic managing editor Bhumika Tharoor to explore strategies that modernize the power grid and rebuild our nation’s infrastructure, and the scalable new technologies and nature-based solutions being implemented by this administration.
This session is produced by our underwriter and is "https://cdn.theatlantic.com/media/files/202203_-_atlantic_advertising_guidelines.pdf\">independent of the Atlantic ’s editorial staff.\n \n \nToday, one in five adults in the U.S. struggles with their mental health, and nearly half of the country’s high-school students experience persistent feelings of hopelessness. The advent of AI-based diagnostic tools and chatbots could result in many more people accessing crucial therapeutic services. At the same time, humans are wired for connection—centering that fact is the only way the technology will be effective when it comes to matters of the mind. In a conversation facilitated by Leaps by Bayer, Nick Thompson sits down with two prominent voices in the tech space, Karlie Kloss and Mustafa Suleyman , to explore the promises and perils of entrusting our psychological health and well-being to machines.
The spectrum of the political right is broad—social conservatives, libertarians, MAGA supporters, populists, and RINOs—and the issues prioritized by each group vary largely. Led by senior editor Rebecca Rosen , Atlantic journalists Helen Lewis , David Frum , and Tom Nichols explore the evolution of our political parties and the future of American conservatism. What defines the Republican Party today? And what are the animating forces galvanizing conservative voters in 2024? The Atlantic Festival, now in its 15th year, is the preeminent live exploration of The Atlantic ’s journalism. Ideas Stage interviews tackle the most consequential issues shaping our changing nation. This session includes Founder and President of Emerson Collective Laurene Powell in conversation with House Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries.
 Representative Joaquin Castro discusses the urgent need to address border security and immigration with Pulitzer Prize–winning Atlantic staff writer Caitlin Dickerson.
 Pennsylvania Governor Josh Shapiro talks about governing during this transformational time with CBS News’s John Dickerson.
 Writer Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie has a powerful conversation about freedom of expression with Atlantic senior editor Gal Beckerman.
The stakes couldn’t be higher. Finding ways to mitigate and adapt to climate change is the opportunity and challenge of the moment.
The Atlantic will assemble policy makers, climate innovators, scientists, and business leaders to address today’s most urgent climate challenges and offer solutions for a more resilient future.
Women in leadership roles in Washington, D.C., face unique challenges and exciting opportunities to make a difference. In this installment of Women of Washington, The Atlantic brings together women in the administration, the halls of Congress, and the media who are reshaping the D.C. landscape while making their mark on the future of our nation.
This session is produced by our underwriter and is "https://cdn.theatlantic.com/media/files/202203_-_atlantic_advertising_guidelines.pdf\">independent of the Atlantic ’s editorial staff.\n \n \nThis session offers the stage to three distinguished, Seattle-based poets who share diverse perspectives in both topic and lyrical style. From anti-racism to the LGBTQ community, Indigenous experience to the beauty of the Pacific Northwest, this session will ignite conversations and offer inspiration that can continue to shape our collective culture for the better. Hosted by fellow Seattleite Sharyn Skeeter (writer, poet, novelist, and former fiction/poetry/book-review editor at Essence ), this session showcases the Emerald City as a UNESCO City of Literature and underscores its commitment to equity and inclusion.
Join Atlantic staff writer Mark Leibovich in conversation with Major League Baseball executives Morgan Sword and Raúl Ibañez for a discussion on the league’s recent innovations and the future of America’s pastime.
Join us for an open bar, passed appetizers, and snacks. Network and unwind outdoors on the District Pier before evening programming gets under way. Open to Pass Holders only, no additional reservations are required. You must be 21+ to attend.
Netflix will debut its new documentary series Big Vape: The Rise and Fall of Juul , directed by R. J. Cutler. The series, based on the book Big Vape: The Incendiary Rise of Juul , by the Time correspondent Jamie Ducharme, chronicles Juul’s path from a scrappy tech start-up to a multibillion-dollar tobacco company whose high-nicotine-concentration and flavored products helped spark what top health authorities labeled an epidemic of youth addiction. Join us on the Pier and experience the screening of the first episode of the documentary series before its fall global premiere on Netflix. Immediately following the screening, enjoy a conversation with director R. J. Cutler and author Jamie Ducharme , led by the Atlantic staff writer Shirley Li.
\n \n \nWatch the Big Vape: The Rise and Fall of Juul trailer "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7uhfzdsxYWU\">HERE.
The Atlantic Festival, now in its 15th year, is the preeminent live exploration of The Atlantic ’s journalism. Join us on the Ideas Stage to unpack the most consequential issues shaping our changing nation.
Russell Moore , the editor in chief of Christianity Today , will be in conversation with the Atlantic staff writer Tim Alberta about the future of the American evangelical church; Mira Murati , the chief technology officer for OpenAI, will join the Atlantic staff writer Ross Andersen to discuss the future of AI; Utah Governor Spencer Cox will join the Atlantic staff writer McKay Coppins for an interview about bridging political divides; and former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton will be in conversation with The Atlantic ’s editor in chief, Jeffrey Goldberg , about existential threats to democracy.
This session will also feature two conversations produced by our underwriters Pfizer and Southern Company.
Aamir Malik , the executive vice president and chief business innovation officer of Pfizer, will highlight making the impossible possible and powering the next generation of medical breakthroughs, and Chris Womack , the president and CEO of Southern Company will speak on the power of collaboration in the energy industry and beyond.
The best-selling author Lauren Groff joins The Atlantic ’s managing editor Andrea Valdez to discuss her newest work, The Vaster Wilds.
 The character-driven novel, set in 1600s America, examines religion, colonialism, and the will to survive. Signed copies of The Vaster Wilds will be available for purchase immediately following the conversation.
This session is produced by our underwriter and is "https://cdn.theatlantic.com/media/files/202203_-_atlantic_advertising_guidelines.pdf\">independent of the Atlantic ’s editorial staff.\n \n \nWe’re in an unprecedented time in medicine, when the convergence of science and technology is transforming the discovery and development of new therapies with the potential to bring far greater benefits to patients than ever before. Computational methods, especially from AI/ML, are now becoming just as essential as biology and chemistry to the future of medicines. Hear from experts in industry and academia about how large datasets, iterative data generation capabilities, and new algorithms are being used to train and optimize predictive and generative AI models that will yield new insights for target and drug discovery and answer fundamental questions about human biology, disease, and ML itself.
Join us on the Pier as Jake Tapper , the CNN anchor and chief Washington correspondent, discusses the release of his third novel, All the Demons Are Here , with Atlantic staff writer Helen Lewis.
 The thriller is set in 1977 and transports readers to the captivating worlds of mystery, murder, celebrity, and intrigue. Signed copies of All the Demons Are Here will be available for purchase immediately following the conversation.
Small businesses are the backbone of the U.S. economy, creating two-thirds of new jobs and accounting for nearly half of our economic activity. Although new business creation has seen a historic boom this decade, unfortunately, half of all small businesses will fail within their first five years. What is needed to ensure that these businesses not only survive but thrive? We’ll explore the infrastructure required to get small businesses off the ground, hear from entrepreneurs who are scaling successfully, and learn about how giving back to the community can establish roots that lead to long-term success.
Continuing our exploration of happiness and finding purpose in life, the In Pursuit of Happiness forum will help us deepen our understanding of the principles and work needed to pursue what truly brings enduring happiness. Join Atlantic contributing writer Arthur C. Brooks , the author Cheryl Strayed , the Harvard Medical School professor and author Robert Waldinger , the author and poet Cleo Wade , and freestyle+ as we explore the science of happiness, the importance of self-love and vulnerability, active mindfulness, and how to build the life you want.
After decades of calls for reform, the criminal-justice system is still plagued by rising crime rates, police violence, and an overall distrust in public safety. Here we examine some of the major issues, such as bail reform, crisis response, the probation and parole trap, and discuss practical policy solutions and action items to radically transform a system that is failing the people it is meant to serve.
American democracy is at a crossroads. The rise of authoritarianism and extremism, as well as the related crises of disinformation and misinformation, threaten democratic norms. Join us on the pier for a series of conversations to examine the way forward. Hear from former representative and 2024 Republican presidential candidate Will Hurd as he talks with Evan Smith , an Atlantic contributor and a co-founder of The Texas Tribune , about his presidential campaign, the future of the Republican Party, and the fragility of our democracy. This will be followed by an interview with National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan about the Biden administration’s strategy to address domestic and global political violence that poses existential threats to the future of democracy.
New technologies are transforming the global health-care delivery system. Advancements provide opportunities but could also pose risks to patient outcomes. What regulatory guardrails are needed for emerging technologies, such as artificial intelligence, to ensure that safety and health equity are at the center of new developments? This forum will explore the policy proposals under review, the programs that have transformed patient care, and the disruptors at the forefront of the health-care-technology revolution.\n \n \n Underwritten by \n "https://cdn.theatlantic.com/media/files/2023/live/pfizer_city-of-hope_lockup.png\" alt=\"pfizer and community of hope logos\" style=\"padding: 20px 0 0; width:80%; display: block;\"> Urgency is mounting as the Earth warms and the United States approaches its 2050 net-zero goal. The federal government has passed bipartisan legislation to make historic investments in clean-energy infrastructure, but regulations delay the disbursement necessary to scale quickly. We will examine new technologies and convene industry leaders and policy experts to discuss the partnerships necessary to fuel innovation.
Join us on The Pier for an enthralling, nail-biter screening of the political-thriller documentary Bad Press. Out of 574 federally recognized tribes, the Muscogee Nation was one of only five to establish a free and independent press—until the tribe’s legislative branch abruptly repealed the landmark Free Press Act in advance of an election, prompting a rogue reporter to take matters into her own hands. The film is a timely and unprecedented story about the battle for freedom of the press and against state-censored media. Immediately following the screening, enjoy a conversation with the co-directors Rebecca Landsberry-Baker and Joe Peeler , and Angel Ellis , the journalist at the heart of the story, led by the Atlantic staff writer Shirley Li.
\n \n \nWatch the trailer for Bad Press "https://vimeo.com/861276092/b9a9c708d1\">HERE.
Join Hanna Rosin , host of Radio Atlantic , for a live podcast taping with Atlantic staff writers Elaina Plott Calabro and Franklin Foer to talk about their in-depth reporting on the Biden administration and look ahead to the 2024 presidential election.
Join us for an open bar, passed appetizers, and snacks. Network and unwind outdoors on the District Pier before evening programming gets under way. Open to Pass Holders only, no additional reservations are required. You must be 21+ to attend.
Enjoy an evening on the Pier and experience a fireside chat with the Oscar-winning filmmaker Spike Lee and the Atlantic contributor Jemele Hill to close out the 15th Annual Atlantic Festival. The wide-ranging conversation will explore the personal and professional experiences that shaped Spike Lee’s prolific career, the intersection of art and activism, and much more.
"+3\"> JOIN US FOR TWO DAYS OF CAN’T-MISS EVENTS "+2\">Two full days with more than 10 events each day. Seventy-plus speakers, happy hours, thousands of attendees to meet and have meaningful connections and conversations with. An experience worth investing in that you won’t want to miss. The Festival Pass has you covered — $200.
Tickets are nonrefundable, and seating is first come, first served.
Buy a pass and then register for the sessions you wish to attend. Please note that if a session is at capacity, we will have a stand-by line in person at the event.
In partnership with Washington, D.C.’s reimagined waterfront neighborhood The Wharf—home of The Atlantic ’s new D.C. headquarters—and the many restaurants and cultural and community organizations in the area, we look forward to this can’t-miss opportunity to experience The Atlantic ’s journalism come to life.
"https://www.theatlantic.com/live/atlantic-festival-2023/#agenda\">See agenda below.
Pick up signed copies of books by participating authors from the official festival bookseller, "https://www.politics-prose.com/\">Politics and Prose.
 This year we are proud to partner with "https://marthastable.org/\">Martha’s Table , addressing food insecurity by helping to feed over 250 community members each day. Please join us in supporting these and other local organizations.
