X Black Friday 2023 Live Blog Can You Trust AI Photography? Best TV for 2023 Thanksgiving Travel Times Snoozing Is Fine Solar EV charging 6 Best TV Gifts Tech Money Home Wellness Home Internet Energy Deals Sleep Price Finder more Tech Computing Best Budget Laptop 2023 Find a great laptop for less: We've tested the best budget laptops on the market to find the options worth your time and money.
Updated Nov. 13, 2023 8:00 a.m. PT Written by Joshua Goldman Lori Grunin Joshua Goldman Managing Editor / Advice Expertise Laptops, desktops and computer and PC gaming accessories including keyboards, mice and controllers, cameras, action cameras and drones Credentials More than two decades experience writing about PCs and accessories, and 15 years writing about cameras of all kinds.
Lori Grunin Senior Editor / Advice Expertise Photography, PCs and laptops, gaming and gaming accessories Why You Can Trust CNET 1 2 3 4 5 Experts 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 Tests per Laptop 2,100 2,200 2,300 2,400 2,500 2,600 2,700 2,800 2,900 3,000 Hours Testing CNET's expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
What to consider Price The more you can afford to spend on specs like processor, memory and storage, the better you’ll be in the long run. New Windows laptops can be found for as little as $200, but a good one will run you closer to $500. If you need something cheaper for basics and don’t need to install Windows software, consider a Chromebook instead. One thing you won't find at cheap laptop prices: a MacBook. The cheapest MacBook Air is $999 and even on sale, the lowest it goes is $750.
Operating system Choosing an operating system is part personal preference and part budget. For the most part, Microsoft Windows and Apple's MacOS do the same things but do them differently. Unless there's an OS-specific app you need, go with the one you feel most comfortable using. Google’s ChromeOS is a great alternative to Windows and MacOS if you do nearly everything in a web browser. It cannot run Windows or MacOS software, though.
Size Remember to consider whether having a lighter, thinner laptop or a touchscreen laptop with a good battery life will be important to you in the future. Size is primarily determined by the screen, which in turn factors into battery size, laptop thickness and weight. Look for an IPS LCD with at least a full-HD resolution.
Processor Many budget Windows laptops use AMD Athlon or Intel Celeron and Pentium processors to hit lower prices. We recommend skipping those and looking for an AMD Ryzen or Intel Core processor instead. You may have to go with chips a couple of generations behind the current, but you’ll still be better off.
Memory RAM is where the OS stores all the data for currently running apps, and it can fill up fast. Go with at least 8GB of memory or you’ll have a frustratingly slow experience. Also, don’t choose thinking you’ll be able to add more later. Memory is frequently soldered onto the motherboard now. Most manufacturers disclose this, but if the RAM type is LPDDR, assume it's soldered and can't be upgraded.
Storage Solid-state drives (SSDs) can make a big difference in how fast performance feels compared with older and slower spinning-disk hard drives. But not all SSDs are equally speedy and cheaper laptops typically have slower drives. If you need to go with a smaller drive, you can always add an external drive or two or use cloud storage to bolster a small internal drive.
Table of Contents Top vs Compare Back to selection View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details Table of Contents Top ":"7fak3kthh8lg4tj","type":"heading"}"="" data-keep="" data-id="toc-d1d511e0-f7b8-4225-a03f-f7324e0ac40d-item-1">What's the best overall budget laptop? The Acer Aspire 5 is our pick for the best budget laptop. Acer knows how to make affordable laptops that don't make you feel like you're missing out. We love the Aspire 5 line for its performance, battery life and wonderful array of features -- all with a base price of under $500. Available in 14-, 15.6- and 16-inch sizes, the line can be configured to fit your budget and match performance requirements, from everyday basics to gaming and content creation. That said, prices can go up to about $1,000 , but the quality of the product always surpasses the laptop brand's price tag.
Are early Black Friday sales a good time to buy? Many retailers start "Black Friday" sales as early as Halloween, or even earlier. The quality of deals can vary early on, but as November progresses, many of the deals are as good as the deep discounts you’ll see during Thanksgiving weekend. See the best Black Friday deals we’ve found, and keep up with all the latest deals with our full Black Friday live blog coverage.
While you can feasibly find a decent laptop for under $500, you may need to do some comparison shopping and exercise some patience as you wait for a holiday sale or discount. And with pre-holiday sales and early Black Friday bargains already available, this is the best time to get a reliable $500 laptop. Apart from a sale, though, you may need to shell out closer to $700 to find a durable laptop that'll handle more than simple email correspondence and web browsing. You won't find any current MacBook models at these prices: A current entry-level MacBook Air is $1,000 , and you'll have to pick up a refurbished one or have to hit a good sale to get a MacBook at a lower price. So, what should you be looking for in a good, budget laptop? Using CNET editors' decades of experience testing and reviewing laptops, we've compiled a roundup of the best budget laptops below.
":"g1472l7r8c8v2q5","type":"heading"}"="" data-keep="" data-id="toc-d1d511e0-f7b8-4225-a03f-f7324e0ac40d-item-2"> Best budget laptops of 2023 FILTER BY Showing 5 of 5 Results Show less Pros Available in three sizes with a wide range of component options Full port assortment including Ethernet, HDMI out Cons Build quality is in line with its budget price Backlit keyboard not on all models Battery Life/Runtime 420 min Weight 3.9 lbs Display size/type 15-inch FHD 1920 x 1080 IPS display Processor tested Intel Core i7-1260P Graphics tested Intel Iris Xe Graphics Best budget laptop overall Acer Aspire 5 The Acer Aspire 5 continues to be one of the best Windows laptop deals around. Available in 14-, 15.6- and 17.3-inch sizes, I am partial to the 15.6-inch size because it's relatively compact and lightweight but still full-featured. Acer has a wide range of configurations to choose from, starting under $500. This budget laptop also features a USB-C Thunderbolt 4 port, two USB-A 3.2 Gen 1 ports, Ethernet and an HDMI port. Aside from internal components, the Acer Aspire 5 has changed little since we reviewed it last in 2020. However, we tested a 2022 model, currently $579 , and it still has excellent performance and features for its price.
Acer Aspire 5 review Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Pros M1 Air easily outperforms Intel versions Amazing battery life Cons Base model has 8GB memory, 256GB storage Expensive for a 3-year-old laptop Battery Life/Runtime 1,026 minutes Weight 2.8 pounds Display size/type 13-inch, 2560 x 1600 IPS LCD Processor tested Apple M1 8‑core Graphics tested Apple M1 7-core Full Review Best budget MacBook Apple MacBook Air M1 Apple technically doesn't have a MacBook in its lineup that's less expensive than the $999 13-inch M1 MacBook Air. However, several times a year, this base model's price drops by as much as $250. And while $849 isn't exactly a bargain, it's an excellent laptop at that price, even nearly three years after it first arrived.
Apple MacBook Air M1 review Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Pros Weighs under 2.2 pounds Excellent performance for everyday tasks Cons Backlit keyboard not standard Memory is soldered on Battery Life/Runtime 640 minutes Weight 2.2 pounds Display size/type 13.3-inch, 1920 x 1200 IPS LCD Processor tested AMD Ryzen 5 7535U Graphics tested AMD Radeon Graphics Best budget laptop for students HP Pavilion Aero 13 HP packed a lot of value into the Aero 13: Eye-pleasing magnesium-aluminum chassis, strong processing performance, long battery life, a bright, colorful display and a weight of just 2 pounds (0.94-kilogram). The Aero regularly starts at less than $900. However, it is frequently available on sale for less than $600. We're in the process of reviewing the 2023 Aero 13, but the overall design and features have not changed from the original we reviewed in 2021.
HP Pavilion Aero 13 review Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Pros Higher-end features Long battery life Cons Dim display Backlit keyboard costs extra Battery Life/Runtime 611 minutes Weight 3.3 pounds Display size/type 14-inch (1920 x 1200) IPS, glossy, 60 Hz display Processor tested AMD Ryzen 7 5825U Graphics tested AMD Radeon Graphics Best budget 2-in-1 laptop Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 5/5i 14 Lenovo released its first convertible two-in-one laptop more than a decade ago, so it's no surprise the PC maker has the best budget-friendly option. The 14-inch Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 5/5i is an excellent value. Along with the latest 13th-gen Intel or AMD Ryzen 7000-series processors, Lenovo includes higher-end features like a Thunderbolt 4 USB-C port (Intel only), an SD card reader, a 1080p webcam with a privacy shutter and a fingerprint reader. Plus, it reached nearly 11 hours of battery life in our tests.
Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Pros Good performance, battery life Many configuration options Cons USB-C port can't be used for power or display output No option to add a backlit keyboard Battery Life/Runtime 530 minutes Weight 5.7 pounds Display size/type 17-inch 1920 x 1080 IPS anti-glare display Processor tested AMD Ryzen 5 5625U Graphics tested AMD Radeon Graphics Best budget 17.3-inch laptop (Update: Out of Stock) HP Laptop 17 The HP Laptop 17 is a good pick if you want everyday performance and a bigger display. It's perfect for home office tasks, entertainment and just general computing. Battery life is also good at nearly 9 hours in our tests. Although the configuration we reviewed is $650 , HP offers many configuration options so that you can balance price and performance to match your needs. It's also frequently on sale for much less. And if you'd rather have a smaller laptop, HP makes 14- and 15.6-inch models in this line, too.
HP Laptop 17 review Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Other budget laptops tested Asus VivoBook F1502ZA : We liked the design and comfortable keyboard on our review unit, but its performance and display came up short.
How we test budget laptops The review process for laptops consists of two parts: performance testing under controlled conditions in the CNET Labs and extensive hands-on use by our reviewers. This includes evaluating a device's aesthetics, ergonomics and features with respect to price. A final review verdict is a combination of both objective and subjective judgments.
We test all laptops with a core set of benchmarks, including Primate Labs Geekbench 5 and 6 , Cinebench R23 , PCMark 10 , a variety of 3DMark benchmarks (whichever can run on the laptop), UL Procyon Photo and Video (where supported), and our own battery life test. If a laptop is intended for gaming, we'll also run benchmarks from Guardians of the Galaxy , The Rift Breaker (CPU and GPU) and Shadow of the Tomb Raider.
Budget laptops tend to have components that don't lend themselves to more advanced content creation -- such as a discrete GPU with sufficient memory -- so we don't typically run graphics-intensive performance tests on this class of laptops.
For the hands-on, the reviewer uses it for their work during the review period, evaluating how well the design, features (such as the screen, camera and speakers) and manufacturer-supplied software operate as a cohesive whole. With budget laptops, especially, we concentrate on how well they work given their cost and where the manufacturer has made tradeoffs to reach the price.
The list of benchmarking software and comparison criteria we use changes over time as the devices we test evolve.
You can find a more detailed description of our test methodology on our How We Test Computers page.
How to choose a budget laptop There are a ton of models under $1,000 on the market at any given moment, and a large fraction of those are under $500. And s long as you manage your expectations when it comes to options and specs, you can still get quite a bit from a budget laptop model, including good battery life and a reasonably lightweight laptop body. (And if you're replacing an old Windows laptop that's not up to running Windows anymore, consider turning it into a Chromebook.
) ":"hnw9m8nn1jiobg7","type":"heading"}"=""> Price If the statistics Intel and PC manufacturers hurl at us are correct, you'll be holding onto this laptop for at least three years, so don't skimp if you can afford to stretch your budget a little to better specs.
Even better, think about a laptop with a replaceable battery (if you can find one), upgradable memory (although memory is usually soldered to the motherboard), graphics card and storage, or all of the above. But if you do, trawl the user reviews and comments for people's experiences with upgrading a particular model; sometimes they require proprietary parts or require accessing hard-to-access locations in the system.
For a cheap gaming laptop , though, you'll still have to break the $500 ceiling to support most games. The least expensive budget laptops suitable for a solid gaming performance experience -- those with moderately powerful discrete graphics processors -- will run you closer to $700. Here are our recommendations if you're looking for the best gaming laptop under $1,000.
 Although, if you like to live on the bleeding edge, cloud gaming services such as Nvidia GeForce Now and Microsoft Xbox Game Pass Ultimate's Cloud Gaming will let you play games on laptops with specs that hit the under-$500 mark.
A bright spot is you don't have to settle for a traditional clamshell laptop with a fixed display and keyboard. You can also get a convertible laptop (aka, a two-in-one), which has a screen that flips around to turn the screen into a tablet, to position it for comfortable streaming or to do a presentation.
You can also try to make your current laptop last a little longer. If you need something to tide you over for a few months, dig into possible places to buy refurbished machines and explore nonprofit or educational discounts if you're eligible.
":"6sqrgy43m6auoae","type":"heading"}"=""> Windows, Mac or Chromebook One thing you won't find at these cheap laptop prices: a MacBook or any other Apple laptop. At best you can get the current entry-level model of the MacBook Air for $999 -- on sale you may be able to get it for less than that, but it will never reach truly "budget" territory. Even an iPad will run you more than $500 once you buy the optional keyboard (though it might work out to less if you look for sales on the tablet or keyboard), which is above our budget here. A base-model iPad with an inexpensive Bluetooth keyboard and cheap stand for the iPad might suffice.
It's easier to find inexpensive Chromebooks than cheap Windows laptops, making them one of the most popular budget laptops on the market, though we're also seeing a lot more Chromebooks in the $500-to-$1,000 range and more Windows laptops in the $500 range. Those Windows systems are frequently repurposed Chromebook configurations that really aren't up to running Windows comfortably.
Google's ChromeOS isn't nearly as power-hungry as Windows, so you can get by with a lower-end processor, slower storage and less screen resolution or RAM -- just a few of the components that make a laptop expensive. But the flip side is Chrome and Google apps are more of a memory hog than you'd expect, and if you go too low with the processor or skimp on memory, the system will still feel slow.
While Chromebooks can run ChromeOS-specific and Android apps, some people need the full Windows OS to run heftier applications, such as video-editing suites. With that comes a need for a faster processor with more cores, more memory -- 8GB RAM is the bare minimum, though 16GB is preferable -- and more storage for applications and the operating system itself.
ChromeOS is also a much different experience than Windows; make sure the applications you need have a Chrome app , Android app or Linux app before making the leap. Since Chromebooks are cloud-first devices, however, you don't need a lot of storage built-in.
That also means if you spend most of your time roaming the web, writing, streaming video or playing Android games, they're a good fit. If you hope to play Android games, make sure you get a touchscreen Chromebook.
":"5w4eclel8al0mt6","type":"heading"}"=""> Size Remember to consider whether having a lighter, thinner laptop or a touchscreen laptop with a good battery life will be important to you in the future. Size is primarily determined by the screen -- hello, laws of physics -- which in turn factors into battery size, laptop thickness and weight.
Ultraportable laptops, generally 13 inches or smaller, are a rarity below $700 -- making things smaller isn't cheap. Generally, you'll find budget laptops at 14-, 15.6- and 17.3-inch sizes. Also, because of their low prices, 11.6-inch Chromebooks are attractive. But we don't recommend that size for any but the youngest students.
In the budget price range, you have to watch out for screen terminology when it comes to specs: An "HD" screen may not always be a truly high-definition screen. HD, which has a resolution of 1,920x1,080 pixels, is called "Full HD" so marketers can refer to lesser-resolution displays (1,280x720 pixels) as HD. In Chromebooks, HD usually refers to a screen with a resolution of 1,366x768 pixels. On the upside, the boom in 14-inch laptops trickles down to this price range, which allows for more FHD options in that size.
A frequent complaint we see is about "washed-out" looking displays with poor viewing angles. Unfortunately, that's one of the trade-offs: A lot of these use TN (twisted nematic) screen technology, which is cheap but meh. Look for IPS (in-plane switching) LCDs which are better for off-angle viewing, brightness and color.
":"4oxpsvgf4hdtjps","type":"heading"}"="">Processor, memory and storage A lot of Windows laptops in this range use AMD Athlon and lower-end A series or Intel Celeron and Pentium processors to hit the lower prices. We don't recommend going with an Athlon instead of a Ryzen or a Celeron/Pentium instead of a Core: Windows is too heavy for them, and in conjunction with the 4GB memory a lot of them have, you may find them abysmally slow at best.
SSDs can make a big difference in how fast Windows performance feels compared with a spinning hard disk, though thankfully old hard disks have become a lot rarer. But not all SSDs are equally speedy and cheaper laptops typically have slower drives. If you need to go with a smaller drive -- they tend to max out at 256GB in this price range -- you can always add an external drive or two (or five, for some of us) at some point down the road or use cloud storage to bolster a small internal drive.
For memory, we highly recommend 16GB of RAM (8GB absolute minimum). RAM is where the operating system stores all the data for currently running applications, and it can fill up fast (for example, right now Chrome is taking up 7GB of my memory). After that, it starts swapping between RAM and SSD, which is a bit slower. A lot of sub-$500 laptops have 4GB or 8GB, which in conjunction with a slower disk can make for a frustratingly slow Windows laptop experience. Also, many laptops now have the memory soldered onto the motherboard. Most manufacturers disclose this, but if the RAM type is LPDDR, it is soldered on and can't be upgraded. However, some PC makers will solder memory on and also leave an empty internal slot for adding a stick of RAM. You may need to contact the laptop manufacturer or find the laptop's full specs online to confirm.
Laptop FAQs How much do good laptops cost? Setting a budget is a good place to start when shopping for the best laptop for yourself. Higher-end components like Intel Core i-series and AMD Ryzen processors and premium design touches like thin-display bezels and aluminum or magnesium bodies have made their way to laptops priced between $500 and $1,000. You can also find touchscreens and two-in-one designs that can be used as a tablet or a laptop -- and a couple other positions in between. In this price range, you'll also find faster memory and ssd storage -- and more of it -- to improve performance.
Above $1,000 is where you'll find premium laptops and two-in-ones. If you're looking for the fastest performance, the best battery life, the slimmest, lightest designs and top-notch display quality with an adequate screen size, expect to spend at least $1,000.
Which is better, MacOS or Windows? Deciding between MacOS and Windows laptop for many people will come down to personal preference and budget. Apple's base model laptop, the M1 MacBook Air, starts at $999. You can sometimes find it discounted or you can get educational pricing from Apple and other retailers. But, in general, it'll be at least $1,000 for a new MacBook, and the prices just go up from there.
For the money, though, you're getting great hardware top to bottom, inside and out. Apple recently moved to using its own processors, which resulted in across-the-board performance improvements compared to older Intel-based models. But, the company's most powerful laptop, the 16-inch MacBook Pro, still hasn't been updated to Apple silicon.
But, again, that great hardware comes at a price. Also, you're limited to just Apple laptops. With Windows and Chromebooks (more on these below), you get an amazing variety of devices at a wide range of prices.
Software between the two is plentiful, so unless you need to run something that's only available on one platform or the other, you should be fine to go with either. Gaming is definitely an advantage for a Windows laptop, though.
MacOS is also considered to be easier and safer to use than Windows, especially for people who want their computers to get out of the way so they can get things done. Over the years, though, Microsoft has done its best to follow suit and, with Windows 11 here , it's trying to remove any barriers.
 Also, while Macs might have a reputation for being safer, with the popularity of the iPhone and iPad helping to drive Mac sales, they've become bigger targets for malware.
Are Chromebooks worth it? Yes, they are , but they're not for everyone.
Google's Chrome OS has come a long way in the 10-plus years since they arrived and Chromebooks -- laptops that run on Chrome OS -- are great for people who do most of their work in a web browser or using mobile apps. They are secure, simple and, more often than not, a bargain. What they can't do is natively run Windows or Mac software.
What's the best laptop for home, travel or both? The pandemic changed how and where a lot of people work. The small, ultraportable laptops valued by people who regularly traveled may have suddenly become woefully inadequate for working from home. Or maybe instead of needing long battery life, you'd rather have a bigger display with more graphics power for gaming.
If you're going to be working on a laptop and don't need more mobility than moving it from room to room, consider a 15.6-inch laptop or larger. In general, a bigger screen makes life easier for work and is more enjoyable for entertainment, and it also is better if you're using it as an extended display with an external monitor. It typically means you're getting more ports, too, so connecting an external display or storage or a keyboard and mouse are easier without requiring a hub or dock.
For travel, stay with 13- or 14-inch laptops or two-in-ones. They'll be the lightest and smallest while still delivering excellent battery life. What's nice is that PC-makers are moving away from 16:9 widescreens toward 16:10- or 3:2-ratio displays, which gives you more vertical screen space for work without significantly increasing the footprint. These models usually don't have discrete graphics or powerful processors, though that's not always the case.
Which laptop is best for gaming or creating? You can play games and create content on any laptop. That said, what games you play and what content you create -- and the speed at which you do them -- is going vary greatly depending on the components inside the laptop.
For casual browser-based games or using streaming-game services like Nvidia GeForce Now and Xbox Cloud Gaming , you don't need a powerful gaming laptop. And similarly, if you're trimming video clips, cropping photos or live-streaming video from your webcam, you can get by with a modestly priced laptop or Chromebook with integrated graphics.
For anything more demanding, you'll need to invest more money in discrete graphics like Nvidia's RTX 30- or 40-series GPUs. Increased system memory of 16GB or more, having a speedy SSD of at least 512GB for storage and a faster processor such as an Intel Core i7 or AMD Ryzen 7 will all help you get things moving faster, too.
The other piece you'll want to consider is the display. For gaming, look for screens with a high refresh rate of 120Hz or faster so games look smoother while playing. For content creation, look for displays that cover at least 100% sRGB color space or, better yet, 100% DCI-P3.
Computing Guides Laptops Best Laptop Best Chromebook Best Budget Laptop Best Cheap Gaming Laptop Best 2-in-1 Laptop Best Windows Laptop Best Macbook Best Gaming Laptop Best Macbook Deals Desktops & Monitors Best Desktop PC Best Gaming PC Best Monitor Under 200 Best Desktop Deals Best Monitors M2 Mac Mini Review Computer Accessories Best PC Speakers Best Printer Best External Hard Drive SSD Best USB C Hub Docking Station Best Keyboard Best Webcams Best Mouse Best Laptop Backpack Photography Best Camera to Buy Best Vlogging Camera Best Tripod Best Waterproof Camera Best Action Camera Best Camera Bag and Backpack Best Drone Tablets & E-Readers Best E-Ink Tablets Best iPad Deals Best iPad Best E-Reader Best Tablet Best Android Tablet 3D Printers Best 3D Printer Best Budget 3D Printer Best 3D Printing Filament Best 3D Printer Deals Show more Show less More From CNET Deals Reviews Best Products Gift Guide Shopping Extension Videos Software Downloads About About CNET Newsletters Sitemap Careers Policies Cookie Settings Help Center Licensing Privacy Policy Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information instagram youtube tiktok facebook twitter flipboard
