Tech Money Home Wellness Energy Home Internet Deals & Reviews New! Price Finder More Close Join/Login Tech Home Entertainment Mobile Computing Services & Software Gaming Money Credit Cards Mortgages Insurance Loans Cryptocurrency Banking Investing Taxes Home Home Internet Home Security Kitchen & Household Smart Home Energy & Utilities Yard & Outdoors Wellness Sleep Nutrition Fitness Personal Care Parenting Medical Mental Health News & Culture Politics Social Media Privacy Misinformation Culture Internet Culture Entertainment Sports Videos Science Climate Space Biology Deals & Reviews Reviews Best Products Versus Gift Guide Shopping Extension Cars Best Cars Car Accessories Car Reviews Car News Car Prices Coupons Vistaprint Coupons StubHub Discount Codes H&M Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Home Depot Coupons Office Depot Coupons Ashley Furniture Coupons Samsung Promo Codes NordVPN Coupons Surfshark Coupons Shutterfly Promo Codes Zenni Optical Promo Codes Hotels.com Coupons Walmart Promo Codes Booking.com Promo Codes Hotwire Promo Codes Want CNET to notify you of price drops and the latest stories? No, thank you Accept How We Will Use Artificial Intelligence at CNET With proper guardrails, new tools can assist us in producing expert, unique and helpful advice.
CNET has built our expertise through more than 25 years of testing and assessing new technology. Our goal is to help drive conversations about how those advancements -- including AI -- can solve real-world problems, because we believe you can create a better future when you understand new ideas.
 Our commitment is to be transparent about our process and results and to deploy new tools in smart and ethical ways.
Our ethical standard includes two tenets: One, every piece of content we publish is factual and original, whether it's created by a human alone or assisted by our in-house AI engine, which we call RAMP. (It stands for Responsible AI Machine Partner.) If and when we use generative AI to create content, that content will be sourced from our own data, our own previously published work, or carefully fact-checked by a CNET editor to ensure accuracy and appropriately cited sources.
Two, creators are always credited for their work. The use of our AI engine will include training on processes that prioritize accurate sourcing and include standards of citation.
CNET's use of AI is guided in part by a working group of staffers from across our organization who regularly meet to collaborate on principles that establish how we work with new and emerging tools. This page will keep you informed of that work, and we'll update it as we learn and adjust.
As of this writing, here are some examples of places in our work where we are exploring leveraging RAMP.
Organizing large amounts of information: After decades of reporting and testing products, we've got loads of valuable data -- and so do our trusted partners. One way we can use AI is to analyze and sort that information to create specific guidance, such as in geographically targeted guides of local services. RAMP will help us sort data and present it in ways that tailor information to certain audiences. Without an AI assist, this volume of work wouldn't be possible. For example, this guide to the best internet service providers in Bismarck, North Dakota , used RAMP to gather speed, pricing and availability information from a proprietary database. A staff writer then reviewed, fact-checked and added subject matter expertise to RAMP's drafted content, which was trained on our own writing.
Speeding up certain research and administrative portions of our workflow: CNET editors could use AI to help automate some portions of our work so we can focus on the parts that add the most unique value. This might include creating outlines of a given topic or analyzing written work to let us know if it's missing key themes or relevant context we can add. RAMP may also generate content such as explanatory material (based on trusted sources) that a human could fact-check and edit.
Here are situations where we won't being using AI: Writing full stories: None of the stories on CNET have been or will be completely written by an AI. If that changes, as technology and our processes evolve, we will disclose it here. For now, articles may contain portions of text that were generated by AI and then edited and fact-checked by our editors.
Product testing: We are not using AI tools to do any of the hands-on, product-based testing that informs our reviews and ratings. Those tests are performed by our trusted, experienced and award-winning human experts, many of whom have a decade or more of experience with the tech they review. See here for more information about how we test everything.
Generating images and videos: CNET staff photographers and video producers are evaluating approaches and best practices regarding the use of the generative AI to create images and videos. As of now, CNET is not publishing AI-generated images except as examples of AI capabilities in our coverage of tools currently on the market.
On any stories or pages that feature text that originated from our AI tool, we'll include that information in a disclosure -- typically, in a secondary byline at the top of the story. On any story that deals substantively with the topic of artificial intelligence, whether or not we used the technology in the creation of that story, we'll include a disclosure about our organization's use of AI that links to this page.
We're going to continue testing AI tools and we expect to learn a ton about how we can use these tools to create even better content and advice for you. We'll continue to let you know how it goes.
More From CNET Deals Reviews Best Products Gift Guide Shopping Extension Videos Software Downloads About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Policies Help Center Terms of Use Privacy Policy Licensing Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
