X Black Friday 2023 Live Blog Can You Trust AI Photography? Best TV for 2023 Thanksgiving Travel Times Snoozing Is Fine Solar EV charging 6 Best TV Gifts Tech Money Home Wellness Home Internet Energy Deals Sleep Price Finder more Tech Services & Software Best Streaming Services of 2023 If you're trying to decide which streaming services are best for you, our comprehensive ranking may help.
Updated Oct. 21, 2023 5:00 a.m. PT Written by Kourtnee Jackson Sarah Lord Alison DeNisco Rayome Kourtnee Jackson Writer Expertise Kourtnee is a longtime cord-cutter who's subscribed to streaming services like Netflix, Hulu, Disney Plus, HBO Max, Crunchyroll, Sling, Spotify and more. As a real-life user of these services, she tracks the latest developments in streaming, the newest re Credentials Though Kourtnee hasn't won any journalism awards yet, she's been a Netflix streaming subscriber since 2012 and knows the magic of its hidden codes.
Sarah Lord Writer Expertise TVs, Home Entertainment, Streaming, Computers Credentials Member of Screen Actors Guild and Actors Equity Association Alison DeNisco Rayome Managing Editor Expertise Home Tips, including cooking, cleaning and appliances hacks Credentials National Silver Azbee Award for Impact/Investigative Journalism; National Gold Azbee Award for Online Single Topic Coverage by a Team; National Bronze Azbee Award for Web Feature Series Why You Can Trust CNET 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25+ Years of Experience 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 10,000 11,000 12,000 13,000 14,000 15,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
Read how we test products and services.
View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details What is the best overall streaming service? Of all the streaming services we tested, Netflix was our favorite. Why? It has a reliable, user-friendly interface, a range of features and a diverse, ever-changing catalog. It consistently adds new originals from around the world, and you even have the ability to find titles using secret codes.
 The addition of an ad-based tier makes it even more affordable compared with rivals Disney Plus and Max. Other high-quality streaming services are available, so even though Netflix is currently our first choice, it may not align with your budget or preferences.
Are early Black Friday sales a good time to buy? Many retailers start "Black Friday" sales as early as Halloween, or even earlier. The quality of deals can vary early on, but as November progresses, many of the deals are as good as the deep discounts you’ll see during Thanksgiving weekend. See the best Black Friday deals we’ve found, and keep up with all the latest deals with our full Black Friday live blog coverage.
Streaming services have undergone major changes in the past three years alone. With our extensive best list, which includes Netflix , Hulu, Disney Plus and Max , we can help you select which platforms are right for you. You may also want to go through our lineup of the best live TV streaming services.
 We've reviewed each of these streaming services individually and assigned numeric ratings based on catalogs; app design and features; and overall value. Some judgments are based on our personal tastes for content, so note that if you love a specific show or style of show, you may have a different favorite.
Best streaming services of 2023 Show less Best streaming service overall Netflix There's a reason why Netflix has become shorthand for streaming in general. The former movie rental service evolved into the top-tier streaming app that's a must-have in 2023, even if you're paying extra to share your password.
 When big originals like The Witcher or Stranger Things drop, they grab the attention of millions of viewers along with critical praise and awards, giving us the closest thing we have to water cooler conversations these days.
The streamer offers a wide variety of familiar network shows and more original series, films, documentaries and specials than any of its competitors. New shows and movies arrive each week. And the company doesn't mind catering to different tastes with gaming options and categories for kids, anime and foreign language titles from all over the globe.
Starting at $7 a month for an ad-supported account and $15.50 monthly for the standard ad-free plan, its price is in the middle of the TV service pack. While the $23 premium option gives you 4K content and four screens, both standard plans -- with or without ads -- include HD and two simultaneous streams. But for the variety you get, it's still a top pick.
Pros: Simple interface that's easy to navigate Solid recommendation system Abundant catalog of licensed movies, shows and originals including Stranger Things, Wednesday Cons: Expensive subscription plans Fee for extra members James Martin/CNET Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Best streaming service for family-friendly content Disney Plus Disney Plus is one of Netflix's closest competitors -- for good reason. It's the only place where you can stream the vast majority of the Disney and Pixar libraries, along with every Star Wars movie, Marvel films and new original TV shows, National Geographic content, and 30-plus seasons of The Simpsons. Shows like The Mandalorian, Loki , Andor and She-Hulk , have drawn millions of viewers, while features such as Turning Red and Encanto won rave reviews. Plus, there's lots more Star Wars and Marvel original programming coming in the next few years.
At the current price of $8 per month for the ad-based plan, Disney Plus is still one of the least expensive streaming TV choices and a great value. We consider it a must-have if you have kids or are a fan of any of its other titles (and who isn't a fan of Baby Yoda?).
The ad-free version will cost $14 monthly, but Disney has four bundles that range from $10 to $25 per month. Duo Basic is a $10-per-month plan that combines Disney Plus and Hulu with ads, ad-free Duo Premium costs $20 per month. For $15 monthly, the Disney Bundle Trio Basic comes with Disney Plus, Hulu and ESPN Plus, all with ads. A $25-per-month Trio Premium bundle nets you all three streaming platforms, and only ESPN Plus has ads.
Pros: Huge library that includes Guardians of the Galaxy, The Mandalorian and Encanto Reasonably priced bundles Adjustable content rating system Cons: Extended waits for new or original releases Sarah Tew/CNET Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Best streaming service for premium content like House of the Dragon Max A rebrand has turned HBO Max into Max, an updated app full of popular TV shows and movies. It has HBO's entire library, DC Universe titles, along with favorites such as Friends, the Lord of the Rings movies and almost every Studio Ghibli film. And it's the primary destination for new Warner Bros.-owned feature films. It's not Disney Plus, but Max has a solid streaming collection for kids too, with the ability to control ratings on kids' profiles better than most other services.
At $10 per month, it sits next to Netflix at the higher end of the streaming spectrum, and if you prefer the ad-free experience, the cost jumps up to $16 or $20 per month. Max is ramping up its new originals, and we expect that to increase over time. With the addition of Discovery Plus unscripted content, there is more to stream. Though its 8.0 rating is neck-and-neck with Prime Video, Max consistently drops new releases, possesses a large back catalog and offers smooth, user-friendly features.
Pros: Slick interface Loads of content for all audiences. Titles include Euphoria, The White Lotus and House of the Dragon Reliable, customizable parental controls Cons: Pricier subscriptions, even with ads Max/Warner Bros. Discovery/James Martin Photo Gallery 1/1 The new Max streaming service may eventually add live sports content.
Show expert take Show less Show less Pros Low monthly fee for base plan New shows available soon after they air Excellent selection of familiar TV Strong slate of original programs Cons Fewer original series than Netflix and Amazon Prime Ad-free experience isn't as good a value Complex menus can be confusing Full Review Best budget streaming service for the price Hulu For $8 per month (with ads), Hulu is a perfect complement and counterpoint to Netflix. Its channel lineup has a huge variety of familiar shows from networks like ABC, Fox and FX that you can watch soon after they air (unlike on Netflix), as well as a growing catalog of its own critically acclaimed original series like The Handmaid's Tale and Only Murders in the Building. If you have $8 a month to spare and don't mind trading a few ads for a wealth of TV options, Hulu is a no-brainer. You've also got the option to upgrade to a no-ads plan for $18 a month, or add on live TV streaming for $77 a month for a full cable replacement.
Pros: Low monthly price Access to network shows and originals including Abbott Elementary, The Handmaid's Tale, Love Island New episodes available almost immediately Option to get the Disney Bundle Cons: Smaller catalog of originals than its rivals Menus are sometimes hard to navigate Glitches on occasion James Martin/CNET Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Best value streaming service bundled with Amazon membership Prime Video Amazon's Prime Video features lots of ad-free, quality original shows and movies, an impressive back catalog of older favorites (and B-movies you haven't heard of) and NFL on Thursday nights.
It lacks the catalogs of Netflix and Hulu, and the star power of Disney's streaming platform, and I found its menus more confusing since there's some paid content mixed in with free content. Prime Video's new redesign aims to cut down on that confusion with clearer labeling and menu updates for its global customer base. For millions of Prime subscribers, the Prime Video channel is already included at no extra cost. If you're interested in checking out any of its originals like The Rings of Power or its large movie selection, it may even be worth paying the stand-alone $9 a month TV service fee (if you don't have Amazon Prime).
Pros: Included in with Prime membership Large selection of movies and TV shows including The Boys, The Rings of Power and Swarm Offline downloads Cons: Confusing search process and menus Free and paid content stacked together James Martin/CNET Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Best streaming service for early access to original series, ad-free blockbuster movies Starz Priced at $10 a month without ads, Starz provides a unique but expanding library of films and original shows. With more than 800 movies in its bank that range from '80s classics to Westerns to the hottest new Sony releases, the streamer houses every genre in its catalog. But Starz has been inching its way into the prestige TV market with a quality lineup of original programming.
It's best known for the Power universe, Outlander and The White Queen. As a Lionsgate-owned company, Starz also airs the studio's movies and shows -- like John Wick and Saw. While you can't stream feature films as day-and-date releases, Starz has a deal with Universal to broadcast its lineup. That includes flicks such as Jurassic World Dominion , Minions: The Rise of Gru and Oppenheimer. For $10 a month, the Starz app gives you unlimited downloads, early access to new TV show episodes, and four simultaneous streams, all with no ads. Whether you want to stream blockbuster movies, documentaries, original series, or something for kids, Starz is worth the cost.
Pros: Quality TV shows including P-Valley, Outlander, Power Book II: Ghost, The Serpent Queen New episodes drop early on the app Unlimited downloads No ads Cons: Playback issues on some phones Sarah Tew/CNET Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Best streaming service for hockey and UFC fans ESPN Plus ESPN Plus is a great streaming service for the tried-and-true sports fans, especially those who follow the NHL, MLS and UFC. This is because ESPN Plus is the new home of all out-of-market National Hockey League games, while also offering out-of-market MLS soccer matches, along with those from other soccer leagues around the world. It hosts exclusive UFC matches and pay-per-view events, such as UFC Fight Night and championship bouts (for additional fees).
Hockey and MLS fans who root for teams that aren't based where they currently live need ESPN's streaming service to watch their team's action. The service won't be of much use, however, to fans of the home teams. Local games are blacked out on ESPN Plus so you'll need access to your regional sports network through cable or a live TV streaming service in order to watch them. However, golf fans can stream the PGA Tour live on the platform.
ESPN Plus doesn't show live NFL or NBA games, however, and while its vast library of original programming is impressive, it's difficult to navigate. While the year service is best suited for die-hard fans of the sports it covers well, more casual fans might find themselves with an ESPN Plus subscription anyway through the Disney Bundle , which also includes Hulu and Disney Plus starting at $15 a month. A standalone subscription for ESPN Plus costs $11, but some viewers may find it more cost-effective to pay for one of the Disney Bundles, which range from $15-$25 monthly.
If you're looking to watch an abundance of sports content, check out our picks for the best sport streaming services.
Pros: ESPN originals Plenty to watch for NHL, UFC fans Cons: Missing live broadcasts for NFL and NBA Sarah Tew/CNET Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Best budget streaming service for network TV and live sports Peacock NBCUniversal's streaming service Peacock offers a premium ad-supported option for $6 a month, granting you access to more than 80,000 hours' worth of content. Upgrade to Premium Plus for $12 a month to watch without commercials. The service no longer offers its free, ad-supported tier to new subscribers, but existing Peacock customers can downgrade their accounts to watch about 10,000 hours of shows, movies, news and live sports. Fan favorites on the platform include the TV series The Office, and viewers can also watch Premier League soccer matches, WWE events and originals like Poker Face. Keep in mind you need a premium account to watch full seasons of most shows.
New episodes of NBC shows stream exclusively on Peacock, and Premium Plus members can watch live local NBC channels in real time. Newer additions include a dedicated Hallmark channel that airs simulcasts and new movie premieres that typically arrive 45 days after their theatrical releases.
Peacock drops in the rankings due to its lack of mobile downloads for its non-premium plus tiers and limited 4K HDR streaming, which most of its competitors offer.
Pros: Stream Yellowstone, Real Housewives, Chicago Fire, live sports, Bel-Air Live broadcasts of NFL's Sunday Night Football Decent selection of new and older movies Cons: No offline downloads for mobile Paywall prevents access full seasons Peacock Premium has ads, not the best value James Martin/CNET Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Best streaming service for fans of CBS, Nickelodeon and cable networks Paramount Plus Paramount Plus brings together live news and sports with on-demand shows and movies, including originals, leaning on parent company Paramount's brands like CBS, MTV, BET, Comedy Central, Nickelodeon and Paramount Network, plus its Paramount Pictures movie studio. Now that Showtime series and movies have merged into the Paramount Plus app, you can upgrade to a premium subscription to watch content from both services in one place.
The service has a ton of content: 30,000 episodes of TV and 2,500 movies, plus dozens of original series arriving this year, for either $6 a month (with ads) or $12 a month (ad-free with Showtime). Two of its biggest draws include the Star Trek catalog and new originals like Star Trek: Discovery and Picard, and the series The Good Fight. Buzz-worthy originals include two Yellowstone spinoffs (though Yellowstone itself is on rival Peacock), a Star Trek animated show, Rabbit Hole with Kiefer Sutherland, and new movies like Mission: Impossible 7 arriving 45 days after theaters.
But much of its value lies in nostalgia: You can watch just about every old Nickelodeon show, Comedy Central stand-up specials and popular series ranging from Frasier and Cheers to SpongeBob SquarePants and Young Sheldon. Additionally, Paramount Plus has a Live Channels feature which enables subscribers to watch curated content in special categories. Check out channels for Star Trek, CBS Sports HQ, Paw Patrol and more with either subscription plan.
Currently, new subscribers can receive a seven-day free trial.
Pros: Large selection of reality shows, kids' titles from Nickelodeon, and access to CBS hits Streams major movies such as Scream 6 and Top Gun: Maverick soon after release Live NFL games Inexpensive monthly price Ability to watch Showtime titles Cons: Few originals outside of Evil, Yellowstone: 1883 and Star Trek Not much 4K HDR content Sarah Tew/CNET Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Best streaming service for affordable, ad-free premium content Apple TV Plus Despite the price jump to $7 a month, Apple TV Plus stands as the lowest-priced premium, ad-free streaming service available, with high-end features like 4K resolution, HDR and mobile downloads. However, it's also the only service on this list that includes only original content, and no back catalog of shows or movies to explore. While it now has more than 50 exclusive, big-budget original programming shows and movies, only a few have captured widespread attention, such as Ted Lasso and Severance , while CODA won 2022's Oscar for Best Picture. Though the service is branching out with additions like live MLB baseball on Fridays, its library is far smaller than any of the others on this list.
The app is also confusing because it's housed in the larger Apple TV app with other content. However, Apple TV Plus has one big advantage: There are a lot of ways to get it for free, at least for a while. If you're a degree-seeking college student, a new purchaser of an Apple device, or someone who subscribes to the Apple One bundle , you can snag a long-term free trial of Apple TV Plus.
Pros: Ted Lasso, and prestige shows such as Pachinko, Foundation, The Morning Show, Severance No ads All originals stream with 4K, HDR, Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos Cheap monthly rate Cons: Small selection of titles Lack of older content No Android support James Martin/CNET Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Comparing the offerings Below is a summarized look at each service's price, simultaneous streams and availability of ad-based plans to help you decide which platforms are a good fit for you.
Streaming services compared Service Monthly price Ads Number of streams Netflix Starts at $7 Yes (2 for Standard, 4 on Premium) Disney Plus Starts at $8 Yes 4 Max Starts at $10 Yes 2 (4 for Ultimate) Hulu Starts at $8 Yes 2 Prime Video $9 No 2 Starz $10 No 4 ESPN Plus $11 Yes 3 Peacock Starts at $6 Yes 3 Paramount Plus Starts at $6 Yes 3 Apple TV Plus $7 No 6 How we test streaming services Chances are you're already pretty familiar with most of the names on this list, but it's by no means comprehensive. There are plenty of other ways to stream and hundreds of other choices out there. As we evaluated these particular streaming options, we kept certain things in mind.
This list is ordered based on the numerical value I assigned to each streaming service in their individual review, which I determined by design (i.e. ease of use across different TV and mobile platforms), features (like 4K HDR, mobile downloads, recommendations, watch lists and number of streams), content (number of shows and quality of originals and back catalogs) and value (price compared to these other factors). Click through to the full reviews for more details.
Other streaming services we tested Tubi: Known for its large library of free content, Tubi offers some live channels in addition to its on-demand content. You'll find popular TV series and reality shows along with mainstream movies such as Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory, Ma, The Town and The Nun. Its catalog now includes titles from HBO, and iPhone users can tap its AI feature to search for content. We consider Tubi one of the best free streaming services , but the service's selection of originals and obscure titles and its search interface are less appealing than the platforms on this list.
Crunchyroll : The app has not snagged a spot on this best list yet, but we do consider it the best anime streaming service out there. It's a niche platform with a huge selection of anime and new simulcasts, which fans can watch right after a show airs in Japan. The app boasts some cool features and multiple subscription plans that come with extra perks. What Crunchyroll lacks however, are parental controls and the ability to set up more than one profile for an account.
Factors to consider Simultaneous streams: Services usually charge more for more streams. Be sure you're covered for yourself and other members of your household, and consider whether you have to pay extra to share your account.
Finding shows and movies: Is the interface user-friendly? It should be fairly easy to search for things to watch using menus and other features.
4K content: If you have a device or smart TV that streams in 4K, you'll want to know which streaming services offer content in ultra HD.
 Keep in mind you may have to pay more to access 4K, depending on the service's subscription tiers.
Kids' programming: Some streamers offer a large variety of family-friendly titles for all ages, while others have limited catalogs. The best kids streaming services have something for every age.
Streaming Services FAQ Are there any tips for internet speed or the best hardware? To watch any of the services on this list you'll need a solid internet connection, a compatible device (like a Roku, Amazon Fire TV or Apple TV, a smart TV, phone, tablet or computer) and a valid username and password. CNET offers tips on how to optimize your internet speed for streaming Netflix and these other services.
Which streaming service is the most cost effective? Ultimately, you can choose any streaming service you want based on price, content and who watches what in your household. But if you're looking to pare down costs, opt for free platforms or ones that offer the most value for $10 or less. CNET offers tips on how to trim your streaming budget , and we keep up with the latest streaming service deals and discounts. You can always have multiple subscriptions and cancel a service whenever content feels dry.
What about live TV streaming and niche services? This list includes major on-demand streaming services only. It does not include live TV streaming services for cord-cutters (think Sling TV, YouTube TV, which offer live channels intended to replace cable), free streaming services like Tubi or Crackle or smaller, niche services like Crunchyroll or PBS Kids or regional sports networks. You can check out our other best lists for streaming services that cater to anime , kids and more.
Services and Software Guides VPN Best VPN Best iPhone VPN Best Free VPN Best Android VPN Best Mac VPN Best Mobile VPN Best VPN for Firestick Best VPN for Windows Fastest VPN Best Cheap VPN Cybersecurity Best Password Manager Best Antivirus Best Identity Theft Protection Best LastPass Alternative Streaming Services Best Live TV Streaming Service Best Streaming Service Best Free TV Streaming Service Best Music Streaming Services Web Hosting & Websites Best Web Hosting Best Minecraft Server Hosting Best Website Builder Other Services & Software Best Dating Sites Best Language Learning Apps Best Weather App Best Stargazing Apps Best Cloud Storage Best Resume Writing Services New Coverage on Operating Systems Show more Show less More From CNET Deals Reviews Best Products Gift Guide Shopping Extension Videos Software Downloads About About CNET Newsletters Sitemap Careers Policies Cookie Settings Help Center Licensing Privacy Policy Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information instagram youtube tiktok facebook twitter flipboard
