Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Uber suspends uberPOP in Spain following court ruling Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Could the year end any other way for Uber? The ride-sharing service announced in a blog post today that it has suspended its uberPOP service in Spain after a court ruled earlier this month that the service violated that country’s laws.
The decision caps an up-and-down year for the San Francisco-based company in which it raised billions of dollars in venture capital, undertook an aggressive expansion around the globe, but also experienced a wave of regulatory backlash and bad publicity over safety and privacy.
Because uberPOP was the only service the company provided in Spain, the decision effectively means Uber’s Spanish operation has been shut down for the moment.
“The Association Madrileña Del Taxi requested a court injunction against Uber,” the company wrote in a blog post. “Today we have received the formal ruling and, in compliance with the December 9th order from the commercial judge and in respect of the law, we are temporarily suspending uberPOP in Spain while we appeal the court ruling and look to develop new options to give Spaniards access to safe, reliable rides.” The company said it remains hopeful it can reach some kind of settlement with the Spanish government that will allow it to resume service.
“During this temporary suspension of uberPOP, we will also collaborate with Spanish politicians to develop the modern framework needed to create a permanent home for Uber and the sharing economy — and fortunately Spanish leaders have already been standing up for the innovation economy,” the company wrote.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
