Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Don’t expect to hear much on Steam Machines at CES 2015 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Gabe Newell, the big boss of Valve.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Valve hosted a rare press event in Las Vegas during CES 2014, inviting media and partners to their unveiling of more than a dozen Steam Machine prototypes. Valve CEO Gabe Newell himself pulled the black velvet cover off new living room-friendly designs from leading boutique PC gaming outfits, with sleek, compact boxes from Falcon Northwest and Dell’s Alienware division displayed among the mix. The Bellevue, WA.-based company also shared new SteamOS experiences as well as a first look at their unique Steam Controller there.
Don’t expect the same level of fanfare for Steam Machines at next week’s CES 2015, though. While Valve’s partners may have their own plans, it sounds like Valve themselves have no plans for the show. GamesBeat reached out to see if we could expect to hear or see anything new on the Steam Machine front following word of a delay of their launch to 2015.
 We received a clear “nope” in reply.
But an equally brief “GDC” from Valve’s VP of Marketing Doug Lombardi lets us know that March’s Game Developer Conference in San Francisco should bring some new developments.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
