Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages PSN attack fallout: Alleged Lizard Squad member arrested in the U.K.
Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is going after Lizard Squad , but a U.K. agency was the first to make an arrest in the case.
The South East Regional Organized Crime Unit (SEROCU) in England claims it has arrested a member of cyberattack group Lizard Squad, according to a Thames Valley press release (via The Daily Dot ). The U.K. law-enforcement agency arrested 22-year-old Vinnie Omari, who self- identified as a member of Lizard Squad, according to documents posted by journalist Brian Kerbs.
 A warrant served to Omari made it clear that the police were there primarily on suspicion of activity related to stolen PayPal accounts.
“The South East Regional Organised Crime Unit has arrested a 22-year-old man from Twickenham on suspicion of fraud by false representation and Computer Misuse Act offences,” reads the press release. “The arrest yesterday is in connection with an ongoing investigation in to cyber fraud offences which took place between 2013 and August 2014 during which victims reported funds being stolen from their PayPal accounts.” We’ve contacted the SEROCU for more information, and we’ll update this story with anything new that we find.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Lizard Squad is the group that has taken responsibility for the attacks that brought down PlayStation Network and Xbox Live on Christmas. The band of Internet vandals previously took credit for assaulting the servers for games like League of Legends, World of Warcraft, and more.
In an interview with The Daily Dot, Omari confirmed that police served him with a search warrant and went through his home. He says that police were also looking for anything to connect him with the attacks on PSN or Xbox Live. Police confiscated his computers, game consoles, and other electronic devices as evidence.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
