Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Exclusive The Pirate Bay is down — but that’s not helping PC game sales Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Green Man Gaming's homepage during the holidays.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
One of the Internet’s biggest sites for pirated content is offline, but that doesn’t have people who illegally download games opening their wallets.
Green Man Gaming , a large PC-game distributor, has seen no real increase in sales that it can attribute to the closure of The Pirate Bay.
 On Dec. 9, police in Stockholm raided and took down the data center that was hosting the popular BitTorrent website where people could get pirated copies of huge recent releases like Dragon Age: Inquisition or perennial favorites like Minecraft. With a resource like The Pirate Bay unavailable, you might think that maybe people would turn to purchasing their games. But that’s not the case.
“At Green Man Gaming, the commercial impact has been negligible,” Green Man Gaming chief executive officer Paul Sulyok told GamesBeat.
This doesn’t surprise Sulyok. Piracy is an issue that has long plagued gaming — and PC gaming in particular. Sites like Green Man Gaming, GOG, and Steam have carved markets out for themselves by serving the type of person who wouldn’t pirate in the first place.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “Our customers, by the very nature of their interaction with us, are willing to pay for the pleasure of a game,” said Sulyok.
We asked Valve to comment on this story, but the company has not yet replied to our request. EA, which runs the Origin PC-gaming service, declined to comment because it is in a mandatory quiet period in the lead up to its quarterly results.
While Green Man Gaming isn’t really reaping any financial rewards from The Pirate Bay’s downtime, Sulyok still sees the police action as a good thing for the industry.
“It’s encouraging to see that publisher’s intellectual property is a little more secure with the elimination of The Pirate Bay,” he said.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
