Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Xbox Live party chat and friends list down on Xbox One for many gamers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
We’re about to start 2015, but Xbox Live is still dealing with some problems that started over Christmas.
A significant number of gamers are reporting on social media that some functionality on Xbox Live is not working.
 This includes party chat and the Friends app for the Xbox One console. These problems are preventing people from seeing what their buddies are playing, and it is making it so that gamers in a group cannot hear one another. Microsoft’s online service collapsed on Christmas as the result of a cyberattack, and it’s possible that these continuing problems are the lingering effects of that assault.
We’ve contacted Microsoft and asked for an update. We’ll post any new information.
@XboxSupport Xbox Live Friends List and Parties are not working.
— JΔЯED (@FalseFate) January 1, 2015 Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! While some of the social features of Xbox One are not working, gameplay appears unaffected. This means that, unlike Christmas Day, you can hop online and play Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare or Far Cry 4.
On Thursday, a distribute denial-of-service attack, which overwhelms a service with junk data, hit both Microsoft’s and Sony’s online gaming services. This prevented people from logging into their accounts, which made many games unplayable. The cyberattack group Lizard Squad took responsibility, and now the FBI is investigating the matter.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
