Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages What to Think, Ep. 35: Everything you need to know about CES 2015 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Gary Shapiro is the chief executive of the Consumer Electronics Association, which hosts the annual electronics extravaganza in Las Vegas called International CES.
With CES starting next week, GamesBeat lead writer Dean Takahashi and I check in with Shapiro to learn about some of the highlights of the show — and what the electronics industry has in store for 2015, from new tablets, phones, and TVs to 3D printers, drones, and even tech that can help save the world.
Shapiro says it will be the biggest CES ever, with the most attendees, the most exhibitors, and the most square footage of exhibit space. One of the areas we’re most intrigued by is Eureka Park, the show’s startup zone, which will feature 375 smaller companies, up from 220 last year.
Shapiro authored the New York Times bestsellers “Ninja Innovation: The Ten Killer Strategies of the World’s Most Successful Businesses” (Harper Collins, 2013) and “The Comeback: How Innovation Will Restore the American Dream” (Beaufort, 2011). So we also took the opportunity to ask him about the state of the tech economy in the U.S., and how he feels things will look in 2015.
We’ll have a lot more stories from CES in the next few days: Don’t miss our complete coverage of CES 2015.
Plus, we discuss 3 of the most popular VentureBeat stories from 2014: What’s up with The Pirate Bay How to get hired by Google , and Our early, prescient coverage of the iPhone 6.
All this and more is in our latest weekly episode. Check it out! You can find this latest edition of What to Think on iTunes.
In addition, you can listen to us on Stitcher or get the What to Think RSS feed for the podcast player of your choice.
Enjoy the show! VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
