Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter acquires over 900 patents from IBM after infringement dispute Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Like many other tech companies, Twitter has decided to buy some of IBM’s patents rather than go to court.
Just days before Twitter’s IPO last November, IBM claimed that Twitter was infringing on three of its patents. And while it sounded like Twitter was gearing up to defend itself, IBM announced today that the social network has instead acquired more than 900 of its patents. The two companies have also formed a patent cross-licensing agreement, which should mean the end of further disputes.
IBM and Twitter didn’t reveal the terms of the deal, but it’s nothing new for IBM, which is known for being extremely litigious. The former PC maker also makes a big business of selling its IP: Two years ago, Google bought more than 1,000 IBM patents to protect itself from litigation.
IBM is also clearly proud of its capability to nab patents at an astonishing pace. The company was the top patent recipient in the U.S. last year, receiving 6,809 patents covering things like its Watson artificial intelligence and cloud-computing innovations. Samsung received 4,676 patents last year, making it No. 2.
“This acquisition of patents from IBM and licensing agreement provides us with greater intellectual property protection and gives us freedom of action to innovate on behalf of all those who use our service,” Ben Lee, the legal Director for Twitter, said in a statement.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
