Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Social ad startup Moontoast closes $4.5M Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Moontoast , a social advertising and marketing startup, has raised a $4.5 million extension to its series B funding round , the company announced today.
Moontoast’s platform helps celebrities and top brands track and generate more revenue from their following on social networks. It features a comprehensive analytics dashboard, the ability to create and track social ads, and the ability to sell products directly through social media updates. The company’s clients include Toyota, P&G, Nike, Lexus, Samsung, Microsoft, Hyundai, AMD, and Nissan.
The additional capital will be used to expand the company and further develop its social ad platform. The extension comes from Nashville-based Martin Companies, and brings Moontoast’s series B round to $9.5 million.
Founded in 2008, the Boston, Mass.-based startup has raised a total of $15.5 million in funding to date.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
