Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Shopify looking at a $100 million year Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Canadian Harley Finkelstein is only 30.
He was a student. Then a lawyer. Then a snowboarder who wanted to sell shirts on the web to pay for school.
Today, Finkelstein is the chief platform officer of Shopify , an IT powerhouse whose effective and easy-to-use software kits let customers design, create, deploy, and manage their own online retail stores. All in one box.
Shopify’s software now powers over 90,000 online storefronts in 122 countries. Those same virtual shops collectively pulled in $1.7 billion in 2013, according to the company.
Shopify’s client roster is rocking — and growing fast: Tesla, Google, Gatorade, the Los Angeles Lakers, the Beastie Boys. They have 375 employees with offices in Montreal, Toronto, and Ottawa. Shopify is a SaaS powered platform and they make money with subscription fees. Seventy percent of their clients reside in the U.S.
But don’t look for the Canadians to open up shop here anytime soon — if ever.
“We’re happy where we are,” Finkelstein said. “In the Valley, good people are always moving around. In Canada it’s all about employee loyalty. We have employee training programs. People like working for us.” The software player has raised over $122 million in venture cash and may go in for more. But that’s unlikely. The ‘aging’ startup raked in approximately $40 million last year and 2014 promises to be much better, in the $80 plus million ballpark.
Shopify launched in 2006 as an e-commerce sit. The software code was written by Finkelstein’s pal Tobias Lutke, a fellow Canadian and German immigrant.
Today, Lutke, who founded Shopify, is chief executive.
The e-commerce space is crowded, but the duo seems to have figured it out.
eBay , for one, is not a competitor, but, as Finkelstein puts it, they “now help our sales channels.” Square they don’t worry about. In Europe, they are dominating in the UK, Germany, and France.
Venture capitalist Amish Jani with First Mark Capital has invested $10 million into Shopify and has been there from the A round. He chalks up his investment’s success to a few factors: talent and luck.
“Toby (CEO) builds incredible products very quickly. There’s incredible demand for Shopify’s product. And they have the right timing. People are now comfortable transacting online.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
