Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Funding Daily: Babel Street & Roojoom Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Fridays are typically pretty slow for funding announcements, but a pair of startups announced seed financing today. We have the deets on those two deals below.
Babel Street picks up $2M to serve as your international data interpreter A startup called Babel Street has been helping federal government agencies and companies with social media alerts in more than 200 languages. Babel Street helps them pull mentions of key people, places, and things from social networks, media outlets, and other sources. Now the technology could find wider use as a result of $2 million in funding flowing to the startup. The money, which will go toward sales, marketing, and product development, comes from angel investors. A filing yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission disclosed part of the round.
Read the full story on VentureBeat.
Roojoom closes $600K seed round for its guided tours across the web Israeli startup Roojoom today announced the closing of a $600,000 seed round led by 2B Angels and other private investors. A graduate of Microsoft’s Israeli accelerator program, Roojoom enables people to create and curate guided tours across different pieces of content on the web.
Learn more on Roojoom’s website.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
