Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google didn’t ask to buy us, says CEO of brainwave-reading startup (exclusive) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn InteraXon's Ariel Garten Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Yesterday, we heard rumors that Google co-founder Sergey Brin approached Toronto-based InteraXon about a possible acquisition. According to the anonymous source, CEO and co-founder Ariel Garten told Brin she was not interested.
But Garten told us today that no such overture was made.
“I certainly know Sergey and have talked to him and lots of companies,” she said, “but there was no acquisition offer.” “I don’t know where that [rumor] came from, ” Garten said, although she characterized the report as “flattering.” A Google spokesperson has declined to comment.
“Right now,” Garten continued, “our focus is on building meaningful brainwave tools, and, if an opportunity arises to generate more meaningful applications, we’d look at that. ” The company has already raised $7.2 million, including $6 million in a first round of institutional funding led by Horizon Ventures last summer . The company also staged an Indiegogo compaign through December that bagged nearly $300,000.
“We’ve been told we could become a half-billion to a billion-dollar company,” Garten said.
InteraXon makes the Muse brainwave-tracking headband. Set for release in May at an expected price of about $300, it uses six EEG sensors to monitor electrical activity in the brain. Five brainwave types are tracked, and a user can generate repeatable changes in those brainwaves by focusing on specific tasks.
Those patterns of changes are then used to send digital signals to an app on a device. If the brainwave patterns can be repeated and then monitored accurately, a wide range of possible tasks could be brain-driven.
Garten said that the first application, called Calm, will use the technology to “help calm and settle the mind to get control over your own cognitive pressures, to shut down that little voice in your head. ” The company is currently taking pre-orders.
Is she using Calm on a regular basis? “Sure,” she said. “How else can you run a company? “ VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
