Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages European Union holding meeting to scrutinize ‘misleading’ free-to-play games Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Clash of Clans is one of the most-successful mobile games around the world.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Game developers and app sellers are getting a stern talking to from the European Union.
This week, Apple and Google are meeting with the European Commission, the executive body of the EU, to cover the conflicts that free-to-play games present to consumer protection. The app industry employs 1 million people in Europe, and in-app purchases generate more than $13.8 billion in revenue across the continent, according to analytics firm Distimo.
 To maintain those jobs and the influx of cash, the EU wants to ensure that it can trust that free-to-play games are not employing deceptive tactics to squeeze money from under-informed players. This meeting is focusing on mobile even while the microtransaction model grows on traditional platforms like PC. That’s likely because the big free games on PC (like action-strategy title League of Legends) have a reputation for fairness.
“Europe’s app industry has enormous potential, both to generate jobs and growth, and to improve our daily lives through innovative technology,” EU justice commissioner Viviane Reding said in a statement. “For the sector to deliver on its potential, consumers must have confidence in new products.” The commission explained that it was holding these hearings following “complaints from all over Europe.” These deal with games that encourage players, especially kids, to make in-app purchases while presenting the product as totally free.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “Misleading consumers is clearly the wrong business model and also goes against the spirit of EU rules on consumer protection,” said Reding. “The European Commission will expect very concrete answers from the app industry to the concerns raised by citizens and national consumer organisations.” The EU plans to discuss a number of issues with the industry. It wants games marketed as “free” to in no way mislead gamers about the true costs involved. Apps should not emphatically urge children to buy items. Players should know the exact payment arrangements, and developers should not set up games to accept payments without first getting full consent. Finally, developers should make their email address available to consumers to answer complaints and queries.
“Consumers, and in particular children, need better protection against unexpected costs from in-app purchases,” EU commissioner Neven Mimica said. “National enforcement authorities and the European Commission are discussing with industry how to address this issue which not only causes financial harm to consumers but can also put at stake the credibility of this very promising market. Coming up with concrete solutions as soon as possible will be a win-win for all.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
