Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Netflix engineers hack Fitbit to track when you fall asleep during a video Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
What do you get when a bunch of Netflix engineers participate in an internal hack day competition ? Lots of really cool stuff, of course.
One group of engineers decided to use a Fitbit activity tracking gadget to determine when you fall asleep while watching a movie or TV show on Netflix. When you do finally pass out, the hack remembers the exact place in that video and allows you to resume watching at that point when you wake up.
As someone who requires the TV to be on before passing out at night, this is kind of awesome. I usually resort to watching old episodes of Star Trek Voyager, but if I could use this hacked Fitbit, I’d be able to watch stuff I’d never seen before without worrying that I’d lose my place when I fall asleep.
But that isn’t the only thing Netflix engineers did. They also managed to use Apple’s Bluetooth enabled iBeacon device to “bump” videos from one device to another — sort of like that Bump contact/business card sharing app.
For a close look at the hacking projects, check out the demo videos embedded below.
Via Engadget VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
