Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple’s Touch ID may soon recognize your finger more consistently Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn An iPhone 5S owner sets up Touch ID.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The performance of Apple’s “Touch ID,” a prominent security feature of the iPhone 5S, will reportedly improve thanks to an upcoming software update.
Apple is working on a software update to refine the reliability of its Touch ID fingerprint recognition system, according to a report in AppleInsider , which cited an anonymous source familiar with Apple’s development plans.
At the launch of the iPhone 5S last year, most gadget reviewers praised Apple’s Touch ID feature as user-friendly, accurate, and secure. Some iPhone 5S owners, however, have reported diminishing Touch ID reliability as more time elapsed since they first scanned their fingerprints. Rescanning fingerprints seems to reset Touch ID to its original performance, but the issue tends to creep back over time.
Above: The iPhone 5S Touch ID fingerprint sensor deconstructed While Apple is likely working on improved Touch ID hardware for its upcoming iPhone models , the company appears determined to combat the “fade” issue through a software update, although details remain scant. It’s unclear if the rumored Touch ID enhancements will arrive as part of the upcoming iOS 7.1 update, which is expected to arrive next month.
There are some fingerprint recognition issues neither improved software nor hardware will solve, however. If someone majorly damages their fingerprint tissue, for example, there’s little Apple can do about it. But the tech giant is investigating other advanced security methods for its iPhones and iPads, including facial recognition.
In the meantime, folks struggling with Touch ID may want to try this nifty trick: Repeatedly scan your most commonly used finger as several different digits. That has been reported to improve Touch ID’s recognition consistency.
Related articles Sapphire iPhone screen rumors get a boost: Apple reportedly acquires crystal manufacturing components Rumor: Apple intends to release two large-screen iPhones this year Apple patents (another) method for iPhone unlocking by recognizing your face Yes, the iPhone 5S fingerprint reader has been ‘hacked,’ and, no, it’s not a big deal Hackers successfully trick iPhone 5S fingerprint scanner with fake finger VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
