Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Lenovo to launch a line of smartphones from… Ashton Kutcher? Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Ashton Kutcher Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Lenovo is super serious about becoming a major force in the mobile device making industry, as made evident by its $2.91 billion purchase of Motorola last month. That said, it’s a bit surprising to hear that the company’s next big announcement about mobile is a partnership with celebrity / Nikon camera commercial guy / startup investor Ashton Kutcher.
Lenovo and Kutcher are apparently teaming up to produce a new line of smartphones in the near future. Additionally, this won’t just be another situation where Kutcher acts as brand ambassador like he’s doing with gagworthy snack PopChips.
“I know on one level, it sounds corny, but it is real,” Lenovo Chief Marketing Officer David Roman told Re/code.
 “He not only sees himself as an engineer, but he is an engineer*. If he sees a problem, he wants to solve it.” While Kutcher won’t be doing anything to develop the hardware, he will be heavily involved in the phone’s user interface, according to Re/code’s report.
I’m not entirely sure I buy the idea that Kutcher is an “engineer” beyond Lego architecture and an hour of goofing around on a code-for-kids site, but Lenovo obviously trusts his judgment. Kutcher previously partnered with the company on Lenovo’s Yoga tablet , and he’s made a number of successful investments in startups over the last few years.
At any rate, it’ll be interesting to see how the Kutchnovo smartphone turns out.
*Kutcher is learning to code, he says. Check out this clip from late last year: [youtube http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c2NQmg8wCQo] VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
