Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft announces different prices for different locations in its cloud Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Just as it promised, Microsoft is lowering prices for its Azure public cloud yet again — following price cuts at its main competitor, Amazon Web Services.
The idea is to match prices and stay comparable with Amazon’s cloud, in accord with a commitment Microsoft made last year.
But that’s not news so much as Microsoft trying to make its cloud stand out a bit more, by doing something very, well, Microsoft.
Rather than charging the same amount of money for all infrastructure in its Azure cloud data center footprint, today Microsoft announced that each individual location will get its own prices. It’s not that surprising, given Microsoft’s predilection for maddeningly complicated lists of individual prices for products and services.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Amazon’s cloud prices are already broken out by region, but it somehow just makes sense for Microsoft to do that.
Azure general manager Steven Martin writes in the blog post about today’s news: We recognize that some workloads require specific placement while others are not as dependent on location. This approach will help customers save additional money for workloads that have deployment flexibility.
Microsoft maintains regions of data centers in 10 locations — including in Virginia, California, and Japan’s Osaka prefecture — and five more regions are on the way, including two in China.
For some kinds of instances, such as slices of physical servers in Microsoft data centers, Microsoft’s new prices fall below Amazon’s.
Google made a splash in the public cloud last week by cutting prices for lots of services , and it introduced a new system for offering discounted prices after people use the cloud for a certain amount of time in a given month.
While Microsoft’s price cuts aren’t aimed at those, should the Google cloud become more popular, Microsoft might want to refocus its cutting strategy. But until then, for Microsoft the persona non grata is Amazon.
Microsoft last announced lower cloud prices in January.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
