Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Two more Clinkle execs depart. The 15-minutes-of-fame timer is … clinking Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Uh-oh, more trouble in Clinkleland (the magical kingdom of the yet-to-be-unveiled mobile payments startup).
It appears that chief service and operational officer Andy Rendich has left the building, according to a company rep.
Rendich joined the Clinkle in December 2013 to lead “IT infrastructure support, data warehouse operations, and customer service operations,” according to the Clinkle’s press release.
He joined a few weeks after then-chief operating officer Barry McCarthy came on board, and McCarthy has also since left the company.
Rendich came to Clinkle after leading Walmart.com’s supply chain and logistics. Prior to that, Rendich spent 13 years at Netflix in various roles including chief service and operations officer, vice president of operations, vice president of systems development, and the lead of a DVD-by-mail offshoot the company announced but never launched.
Jeff Goslin is also leaving, we’ve confirmed. Goslin joined the company to create its customer service strategy.
When reached for comment, Clinkle’s PR representative said, “We’re adding users by the week and remain focused on hiring in product and engineering. We wish them the best in their future endeavors.” Although still in stealth mode, Clinkle has already seen a series of staff changes, including layoffs in December led by McCarthy and the departure of design chief Josh Brewer after only a few days on the job.
It’s unclear what chief executive Lucas Duplan’s next move will be, but with about $30 million in tow, he’ll have to come up with something fast before his high-profile and strangely silent investors (including Andreesen Horowitz, Richard Branson, Peter Thiel, and Stanford) start pulling the plug.
(h/t to Re/code for unearthing this.) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
