Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VC firm Rise Capital hopes to raise $146M fund to bankroll startups in emerging markets Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Investment firm Rise Capital is looking to raise around $146 million, according to a recent SEC filing.
The San Francisco-based firm focuses on bankrolling startups in emerging markets such as Africa and South America. For instance, this past December, Rise Capital was part of an $8 million round of investments in on-demand TV site iROKOTV, a Sub-Saharan Africa version of Hulu, complete with a monthly subscription for premium content. The service currently holds the largest online catalog of Sub-Saharan African TV.
The firm also invested in an online comparison service in Chile called Comparaonline in September 2013. The service is like a Yelp for South American finance products and insurance policies. It lets users compare products like credit card policies and travel and auto insurance in Chile, Brazil, and Columbia.
Rise Capital Managing Partner and CEO Nazar Yasin has plenty of experience spotting the rising stars of the global startup scene and has a penchant for video-based companies. Before coming to Rise Capital, he was a part of an investment team at Tiger Capital, another globally minded investment firm that put him on the board of companies like YY, a video-based social media site in China that touts over 300 million users, and ivi.ru, Russia’s Netflix.
Founded in 2013, Rise Capital is not the only investment outfit sitting in the heart of startup land with its eyes set on companies abroad.
Lumia Capital are also keeping tabs on companies in Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa.
Meanwhile, U.S. interest in international startups has surged in recent years.
According to TechCrunch , 2013 was the most active year in technology investment in Africa.
Rise Capital declined to comment on its fundraising efforts.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
