Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Stealthy Citizen.VC reports $4M in new funding, reveals few details Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Mysterious company Citizen.VC, which only has a landing webpage thus far, might be pulling back the curtains soon.
We just spotted the Form D the company just filed to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, reporting that it has raise $4 million in funding so far. The form reveals that the company is based in Palo Alto, Calif., is hoping for a total round of $12 million, and has four investors signed up at time of filing.
Emilio DiSanluciano and Zain Khan are listed as executives and directors (presumably founders), and the company was established in 2013.
The company’s landing page states that it is “Building a technology to match curated startups with value-added investors” and will be launching in April 2014.
Although not much can be discerned from the sparse website, we are speculating that the company could be a platform similar to AngelList , the platform that connects very early-stage startups with potential investors. Its language highlighting the matching of high-quality startups and value-added (possibly very hands-on) investors could be a hint.
On the other hand, it could be yet another crowdfunding platform given the use of the word “citizen” in the name — invoking an air of “for the people, of the people” to the whole affair.
Or of course, it could also be a hybrid of the two, something in between, or none of this at all.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
