Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Oculus founder responds to death threats in the wake of Facebook buyout (updated) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Palmer Luckey is fed up with death threats to his employees and their family members.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Corrected at 8:43 p.m. Pacific with clarification of Palmer’s quote.
The Internet can be a very nasty place. Death threats are commonplace in reaction to even minor disappointments, so it’s no surprise that upset people showered Oculus VR with harassment when Facebook bought it.
Palmer Luckey is the founder of Oculus VR, a virtual reality hardware company that makes the Rift VR headset, and he had an answer to all the hate. On Reddit , a widely popular social news website, Luckey said the following: “We expected a negative reaction from people in the short-term, but we did not expect to be getting so many death threats and harassing phone calls that extended to our families. We know we will prove ourselves with actions and not words, but that kind of s**t is unwarranted, especially since it is impacting people who have nothing to do with Oculus.” Luckey is referring to social media giant Facebook’s $2 billion buyout of Oculus last week, which surprised many people and rattled many supporters of Oculus’ Rift hardware.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! [ Updated : In the original version of this article, GamesBeat accidentally quoted Luckey out of context. The quote, “We had limited communication for a reason, and while our customers might be upset about it, they are the ones who benefited most … I wish we could have said more, but it was a case where people just needed to trust us,” is actually part of a longer quote in response to how Oculus handled a shipping issue with U.S. Customs. It has nothing to do with the Facebook buyout, as we previously implied. ] Last week, VentureBeat conducted an interview with Palmer Luckey and chief executive Brendan Iribe looking at Oculus’ past and future. VentureBeat’s Dean Takahashi also wrote an analysis of the implications Oculus’ sale could have on the video game, technology, and social media sectors.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
