Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Well, duh: EA finds only 1 out of 100 customers bought actual discs on digital-game service Origin Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Electronic Arts' Origin service.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Publisher Electronic Arts tried selling both digital and physical games through its Origin service, but most customers heavily favored one of those options.
EA announced today that it is dropping physical games from its distribution network. Starting Friday, Origin customers will only have the option to download software. The Battlefield 4 publisher explained that only around one out of every 100 customers ever used Origin to buy a packaged disc.
“What does this mean for you? If you’re among 99 percent of our users, absolutely nothing,” Origin spokesperson Craig Harris wrote in a blog. “Your shopping experience hasn’t changed one single bit. But if you’re that 1 percent who still desires a physical collection, we want to let you know that Origin won’t be able to fulfill that need beginning April 4. We’ll still be here when you transition your gaming habits to the wonders of digital downloads.” Origin is EA’s attempt to have control over the digital distribution of its games. The company previously used services like Valve’s Steam to sell its PC titles online, but EA figured it had big enough properties to justify its own service.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! In 2011, EA introduced Origin and started pulling some of its games off of Steam and other services. By selling its own games, EA no longer at to share sales revenue with Valve. In late 2011, EA released Battlefield 3, which required Origin. EA has mandated an Origin install for all of its PC games ever since.
Ubisoft’s Uplay service, which is its digital-distribution network, still sells physical games for consoles, but it is digital only for PC.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
