Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter's all-in bet on TV leads to an acquisition: Meet Mesagraph Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Twitter has purchased social TV service Mesagraph , the startup announced today. Financial terms of the deal were not disclosed.
Twitter has been positioning itself as being a platform that caters to TV network for the last few years, which is likely a large part of why it picked Mesagraph.
The startup’s technology focuses on providing analytics on how people are engaging with shows and brands while watching TV. And since the firm is based in the UK, most of its big partnerships (Canal+, France Télévisions, M6, TF1) are with European media companies and TV networks, which is also good for Twitter from an international growth perspective.
Now that’s its a part of Twitter, Mesagraph said it’ll help the company by working with TV networks, agencies, advertisers, and others in the TV ecosystem. The startup’s entire team will also be joining Twitter’s UK office based in London.
The Mesagraph acquisition is a good way for Twitter to duplicate its TV-focused strategy in Europe. The company’s U.S. efforts include partnering with TV-ratings company Nielsen to provide more accurate results. The company also launched a TV network-focused ad/promotion platform Amplify last year, as well as forged partnerships with media companies like Comcast.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
