Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Blue Apron attracts $500M valuation by catering to lazy chefs Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A Blue Apron "meal kit." Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Blue Apron customers fall somewhere in the center of the laziness spectrum.
On one end, there are inspired amateur chefs who rise bright and early to get all their ingredients from their local farmer’s market. On the other, there are lethargic blobs (like this journalist) who order far too many meals through the newly public GrubHub Seamless delivery service.
Blue Apron caters to folks in the middle, delivering fresh, pre-measured meal ingredients to Americans who want to cook healthy meals without whipping out the cutting board.
That’s apparently a sweet spot for the thriving food tech startup, which today confirmed a new $50 million investment, reports the Wall Street Journal.
That sizable funding round values the startup at roughly $500 million, investors involved in the deal told the Journal.
Blue Apron subscribers dish out $10 per meal, per person (they come in two-, four-, and six-person portions). The startup lists six recipes each week, with something for veggie and meat fanatics alike. In fact, it recommends recipes based on the dietary preferences people input. And because subscribers pre-order their food weekly through the online platform, the company says it can keep food waste to a minimum.
After just 18 months of operation, Blue Apron is delivering around 600,000 meals a month to its subscribers, earning the New York startup roughly $60 million in monthly revenue. Its closest competitors are Plated and Chefday.
Stripes Group led Blue Apron’s $50 million funding round, which also featured participation from the startup’s earlier investors, including Bessemer Venture Partners and First Round Capital.
As more technology works its way into the culinary experience at home and on-the-go, venture capitalists have taken notice. Food tech startups soaked up more than $2.8 billion in venture capital last year, according to Rosenheim Advisors.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
