Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Box has second thoughts, delays IPO plans Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Box could well have launched itself onto public markets this month. But it has fought off that impulse as stocks for cloud companies have faltered in recent weeks.
Instead, the cloud-based file-sharing company could end up making its debut on the New York Stock Exchange in June, according to a report today from the Wall Street Journal.
“Our IPO has never had a set date. Since filing, we’ve planned on going when it makes the most sense for the market. That plan hasn’t changed,” a Box spokesperson wrote in an email to VentureBeat.
Cloud software companies like Marketo, Netsuite, Salesforce.com, Workday, and Xero have tumbled lately. Just take a look at Bessemer Venture Partners’ cloud computing index for the past few months, and you’ll get the idea.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Such market conditions aren’t conducive to a successful Box IPO — or for other cloud companies, like Dropbox , which could also IPO in the months to come.
But Box can’t wait forever. The company goes through money fast. In the year that ended on Jan. 31, the company registered a $168 million net loss, according to its S-1 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
So the company will need to raise cash eventually, and that means it will likely turn to the public markets sooner or later, where it will trade under the symbol BOX. It’s just a matter of when — and what will happen after that.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
