Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google launches Google Docs and Sheets apps for iPhone, iPad, and Android Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google woke up from its slumber today and released Google Docs and Google Sheets for iOS and Android devices.
Both of the apps debuted today in the iTunes store.
It’s about time.
Perhaps the technology giant discovered how much pain some users felt as they tried and retried to enter information into spreadsheets inside the Google app for iOS. Or maybe this had to do with the whole Office for iPad thing.
 Or maybe it had to do with Box and Dropbox’s interest in letting people create their files that can live on their respective clouds.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The new iOS apps both feature collaborative editing, allow for offline viewing, and provide a means for sharing files with others.
Google also announced these new features will appear in new standalone Google Docs and Google Sheets apps for Android devices. And new Google Slides apps are coming for iOS and Android devices, too, according to today’s announcement.
Time will tell if those features will reinvigorate the apps for consumers and businesses and improve users’ views on the company’s document creation tools amid increasing competition.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
