Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages F8 is now an annual event, just like Apple’s WWDC & Google I/O Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn SAN FRANCISCO — Today at Facebook’s f8 developer conference, CEO Mark Zuckerberg announced that the company is entering the big leagues. Along with Apple and Google, it will now host its conference every spring.
Next year’s f8 is March 25 at San Francisco’s Fort Mason, a larger venue than the usual Design Concourse.
Traditionally, f8 has taken place whenever the company needed to make big groupings of announcements for both developers and consumers. Now that the event is annual, we’ll get more regular updates from the company on its plans and products — something that developers in the audience were very excited about.
Facebook’s interdependence on third-party developers puts it in the same class as Google and Apple, both of which have built huge businesses (especially in mobile) based on relationships with such entities.
Google holds its I/O conference at San Francisco’s Moscone Center every summer, and Apple’s dev-focused WWDC takes place at the same venue, also in the summer.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
