Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook kills off its ‘move fast, break things’ mantra Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn SAN FRANCISCO — At today’s Facebook developer conference, we got some interesting news for developers: They no longer have to worry about Facebook arbitrarily “breaking things” — such as, say, its APIs.
“We used to have this mantra, ‘Move fast and break things,'” said CEO Mark Zuckerberg during his keynote. “We were willing to tolerate a few bugs to [move fast]. But having to slow down and fix things was slowing us down. ‘Move fast with stable infra[structure]’ isn’t as catchy, but it helps us build better for the people we serve.” That translates to a two-year core API stability guarantee. Facebook is rolling out API version system, too, as well as a guarantee to fix all major bugs within 48 hours.
The overarching plan is to build the most stable, versatile mobile platform in the world — one that spans all operating systems and all hardware.
“We’re really focused on building a stable mobile platform,” said Zuckerberg. “It’s really annoying when we have to build the same thing three, four, five times across all these different platforms. … We all want identities and app installs and even monetization across platforms.” We’ll have more coming soon from f8.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
