Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Funding Daily: Very big private equity and very small microgadgets Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Today, we’ve got everything from a brand-new stealth company making extremely tiny micro-electricalmechanical systems (MEMS) to a 14-year-old “startup” landing a major cash infusion to help you figure out how much you should be getting paid.
Read on for all of the day’s tech funding news.
PayScale lands $100M commitment from Warburg Pincus Over the past 14 years, PayScale has compiled a database containing 40 million salary profiles, all tagged with information about the amount of experience, job title, location, education, and other data.
Today, PayScale announced that private equity firm Warburg Pincus will invest up to $100 million in exchange for a majority stake in the company. The investment will help recapitalize the company (translation: give it a cash infusion while restructuring the ownership) and help it expand into new initiatives.
Read more on VB: PayScale lands $100M commitment from Warburg Pincus Blue Apron attracts $50M investment by catering to lazy chefs Blue Apron delivers fresh, premeasured meal ingredients to Americans who want to cook healthy meals without whipping out the cutting board.
That’s apparently a sweet spot for the thriving food-tech startup, which today confirmed a new $50 million investment, reports the Wall Street Journal.
 That sizable funding round values the startup at roughly $500 million, investors involved in the deal told the Journal.
Read more on VB: Blue Apron attracts $500M valuation by catering to lazy chefs Clean tech lives! Energy storage startup Ambri reels in $35 million Ambri, a Boston-based alternative liquid metal battery startup, raised $35 million Wednesday in a C round from a bevy of heavy hitters like Khosla Ventures , Bill Gates, and even Karen Pritzker, of the Hyatt Hotel family clan.
Ambri launched in 2010 under a different name, Liquid Metal Battery Corp. To date, it has raised a total of $50 million. It already has secured launch partners, and its targeting large enterprise and corporations in order to wean them off the grid.
ZeroFox secures $10.7M ZeroFox , a startup that aims to spot and block threats that big companies can run into when they use social networks, announced $10.7 million in new funding today. The company provides dashboards and alerts as it monitors accounts on lots of social media sites. New Enterprise Associates led the round for the Baltimore-based ZeroFOX. Core Capital, Genacast Ventures, and John Jack also participated.
Read more on MarketWatch.
CloudGenix shows up with $9M to connect data centers all over the place A startup called CloudGenix came out of stealth mode today with plans to sell software for simplifying network operations at companies’ onsite data centers and remote offices.
CloudGenix aims to bring software-defined networking — where decision-making applications for networks run on standard servers, not expensive network hardware — to wide-area networks (WANs) that span multiple facilities. It can let companies put in place and adjust policies for applications running at many sites, from one central piece of software.
Read more on VB: CloudGenix shows up with $9M to connect data centers all over the place Aviso wants to make revenue forecasts as easy as checking the weather Aviso officially launched today with $8 million in new financing. The company’s thesis: You don’t need to be a data scientist to properly weigh and benefit from your company’s financial data.
Aviso makes a cloud-based forecasting tool intended to help customers predict (and improve) their revenues. It grabs data from all sorts of enterprise systems — spreadsheets, sales apps, databases, and so on — then automatically cleans it up, making it understandable to financial executives and analysts. Aviso calls the system “Total Revenue Intelligence.” Read more on VB: Aviso wants to make revenue forecasts as easy as checking the weather Mobile-analytics outfit Liquid takes its first $1M Liquid offers developers an interesting proposition. The company says its product can not only track app data but can also adjust and change how your app works , fine-tuning it based on said data. And all without you having to make any changes to the code.
Crazy! But Faber Ventures and Portugal Ventures, which led a $1 million funding round for the startup, believe there’s gold in them hills.
Read more on VB: Mobile analytics outfit Liquid takes its first million dollars Silicon bigshots create company to make extremely tiny mechanical gadgets Two giants of the semiconductor world have teamed up to create very, very small mechanical devices.
According to a new filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission , former Qualcomm executive John Batey and pioneering silicon researchers Dr. Kurt Petersen have formed a company named “INVIS Technologies,” with Batey as chief executive and Peterson as a board member.
The company is seeking $500,000 in debt. It appears that one investor has contributed $100,000 since March 31, according to the document.
In 1982, Petersen authored Silicon as a Mechanical Material , still the most-frequently referenced work in micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS), and he has published over 100 papers and has been granted 35 patents in the MEMS field.
Read more on VB: Silicon bigshots create company to make extremely tiny mechanical gadgets VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
