Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Weight Watchers is coming to an Internet connection near you Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
What a match made in health heaven: A weight management company just purchased a workout and fitness app.
Weight Watchers announced today that it has acquired Wello , an app that enables people to attend fitness classes or one-on-one fitness training through any Internet and webcam-enabled device. While Wello’s team and technology will help support Weight Watchers’ core brand and products, Wello’s service will live on independently as well.
“I’m impressed with Wello’s talent, their technology and their platform to deliver personalized services,” said Dan Crowe, Chief Technology Officer of Weight Watchers. “We look forward to combining our technology and innovation capabilities to better meet the needs of today’s consumer.” Wello uses webcams and an Internet browser to connect fitness trainers with people seeking to take a class or book personal training, much as ride-sharing services like Lyft and Uber connect drivers and passengers.
“Weight Watchers and Wello share the view that real, person-to-person relationships are essential for meaningful and sustainable change,” said Wello cofounders Leslie Silverglide and Ann Scott Plante.
“This is a tremendous opportunity for us to learn from the Weight Watchers legacy and contribute to the company’s future innovation. We’re all excited to join the team,” they said.
Although this acquisition may seem trivial, it’s not. It’s actually part of the “digital therapeutics” trend.
Digital therapeutics are uses of software to improve health issues.
Earlier this month, we reported on Omada Health’s brand new round of funding.
Omada Health is also a digital therapeutic and also currently in the weight management category. The company has taken proven diabetes research that says weight loss is an effective method of prevention and reversal, and has created a weight loss program that uses a mobile app and digital scale to guide people through their weight loss.
Much like Omada Health, Weight Watchers will now be able to use Wello’s digitally-based approach to fitness instruction in order to help its customers manage their weight more effectively. It will be interesting to see what Wello brings to Weight Watchers’ programs. Being able to scale quickly is one advantage to using software and technology for health management.
Wello was founded in 2011 and is based in San Francisco, Calif. The company raised $1 million in seed funding in 2012, and its investors included Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Rock Health, and Mohr Davidow Ventures among others.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
