Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Ouya finally getting triple-A games — thanks to the cloud Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Playcast cloud streaming on the Ouya.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The Android-based Ouya console hasn’t exactly made a big dent in the marketplace, but perhaps some cloud streaming, which provides on-demand play, can help the modest system out.
Cloud gaming company Playcast Media has announced an open beta for a program that will enable Ouya owners to play triple-A titles, albeit older ones, for free. Playcast is using Amazon Web Services to help pull this off.
 The beta currently gives access to Lego games like Batman and Harry Potter, platformer Sonic Generations, and Telltale adventure games like Sam and Max and Back to the Future.
Since the cloud does all of the computing, the Ouya can play the games despite its modest hardware. Playcast promises that the library will expand in the coming weeks.
“Playcast bridges the visual computation and content gap between Ouya and the consoles,” said Guy de Beer, the CEO of Playcast Media, in a press release sent to GamesBeat. “In this beta, we will be employing for the first time the power of a public cloud system and a set of technologies that is set to overcome the limitations of streaming over the open Internet. Initial results have been very encouraging, and we hope to expand the program soon.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The Ouya could certainly use some hits, even if they are older ones. Towerfall, one of the system’s most hyped and recognizable titles, sold a meager 7,000 copies on the microconsole.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
