Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Alchemist launches a special accelerator for ‘Internet of things’ startups Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The Alchemist Accelerator , an enterprise-focused startup accelerator in Silicon Valley, has launched a new program to nurture startups in the burgeoning ‘Internet of things’ market.
New money from Cisco Investments is bringing the new Alchemist program to life, according to a statement Cisco issued today.
Cisco has previously put money behind Alchemist, but this new investment, along with others it has made in startups like Ayla and Evrythng , shows Cisco is extending its reach in the Internet of things, which Cisco sees as a major strategic opportunity.
Connected devices and wearables for consumers and businesses serve as nodes on the Internet of things. They capture data with sensors and other technologies and sending all the data over the Internet to interface with other devices or to analyze for later use.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Internet of things startups like ISI Technology , MachineShop , Neura have been gatheringe attention and funding in recent months.
Like Cisco, AT&T, GE, IBM, and Intel also think good things could come from this emerging market sector.
The new Alchemist accelerator will be open to software and hardware startups and will provide industry-focused mentors, tech support, and an average of $28,000 in seed funding. Altogether, it could serve as talent pools for such companies to tap, not unlike other Internet of things programs, like Deutsche Telekom’s, R/GA’s , and Springboard’s.
“Alchemist currently has five Internet of things companies and hopes to take another 20 this year,” the accelerator’s head, Ravi Belani, wrote in an email to VentureBeat.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
