Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon data confirms that Fitbit dominates wearable electronics Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Amazon launched an entire section dedicated to wearable electronics and it couldn’t have come at a better time for the growing (and confusing) new industry for health gadgets.
The online retailer is arguably the richest source of consumer electronics data on the planet. So we mined it for some useful info.
Whether you’re a crazy quantified-paleo-dieting-crossfitting health nut or someone who just wants to get some solid daily cardio, we’ve got some data for you here.
1. Fitbit dominates the field Fitbit is on its way to becoming the Kleenex of wearables. It’s damn near synonymous with the brand-neutral “pedometer.” It holds most of the top slots when you sort health trackers by popularity, which correlates to sales on Amazon.
When you sort by average customer review, Fitbit is the top of the top two rows there, too, with the leading activity tracker, the Fitbit Zip, sporting 2,700 reviews. It also has a near perfect rating (4.3 stars).
“Finally, a perfect fitness motivator that changed my lifestyle,” reads one featured review , in what is apparently not a paid opinion.
It’s no surprise then that Fitbit enjoys nearly 58 percent of the market share for fitness gadgets, with the closest competitor, Jawbone, at 21 percent. No wonder Nike seems to be getting out of this game.
2. If you go sophisticated, expect some disappointment Fitbits that attach at the waist are great for tracking steps, since their sensors don’t get confused if you hold a smartphone or hold a purse.
But they’re not as sophisticated at tracking sleep or exercise. Basis, my favorite tracker, is the only wrist-based device to measure all the stages of sleep as well as your resting heart rate (which allows users to track all sorts of fun things ).
Unfortunately, the most advanced measures are still in their infancy. The Basis tracker can’t measure exercise heart rate. So runners will still need a bra-like heart-rate chest strap. I work at at a treadmill desk , and none of the fancier devices from Nike, Jawbone, or Fibit’s wrist devices account for when I’m upright at a keyboard.
Indeed, Fitbit’s sleep tracking, calorie-counting device, the Flex, is a half point lower on satisfaction ratings than the hip-mounted versions.
3. You can find a lot of great deals Sorting by “price” reveals some pretty impressive deals. The Jawbone Up is available for as low as $87, compared to the $147 newer Bluetooth version.
All in all, the Amazon store is useful, but it still lacks a good side-by-side comparison tool.
Other websites, such at Bioniq , do a much better job of comparing trackers. But given Amazon’s size, it’ll always have some data that no one else does — and that’s a reason to return.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
