Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon pokes a hole in VMware with this new plugin Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
In case you didn’t believe Amazon is hungry for public cloud revenue from the biggest businesses, get this: Today Amazon announced a new plugin for VMware’s popular vCenter software for managing data center infrastructure.
Admins of VMware-based on-premises data centers can now set up and manage Amazon cloud resources right from within vCenter with the new AWS Management Portal, according to a blog post on the new plugin from Amazon cloud chief evangelist Jeff Barr. And admins can move virtual machines from their data centers to Amazon’s cloud.
While Amazon has boasted about its traction inside of enterprises, easier compatibility with VMware environments, through technology like this plugin, could boost adoption. It could gradually add to the list of companies running hybrid clouds in conjunction with Amazon’s cloud.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Moves like this should be unsettling to VMware executives. VMware’s been gearing up its vCloud Hybrid Service so companies can move legacy applications to a VMware-friendly public cloud, but it’s unclear how popular the service is these days as low-price Microsoft, Google, and, yes, Amazon cloud resources are so easy to create. Your move, VMware.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
