Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release BitFury Raises $20 Million, Solidifying Its Lead in Bitcoin Infrastructure Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn SAN FRANCISCO & AMSTERDAM–(BUSINESS WIRE)–May 30, 2014– BitFury Group, the leading Bitcoin infrastructure provider, today announced it closed $20 million in financing. Investors participating in the round included Binary Financial, Crypto Currency Partners, Georgian Co-Investment Fund (GCF), Queensbridge Venture Partners and ZAD Investment Company. Renowned angel investors Bill Tai and Jonathan Teo also joined the round, along with the company’s seed investors.
Bitfury will use the proceeds from this financing to build out its facilities in strategic international locations, accelerate its production of the next generation of bespoke semiconductors, or ASICs (Application Specific Integrated Circuits) and servers, and develop opportunities in adjacent business areas.
BitFury is the world’s leader in producing ASICs for the mining of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. It sells ASICs, complete servers, as well as fully hosted and managed solutions to professional cryptocurrency mining companies. In addition to selling hardware and mining solutions, BitFury also operates one of the largest bitcoin mining operations with top-end datacenters in Finland, Iceland and, most recently, the Republic of Georgia.
Mr. Valery Vavilov, CEO of Bitfury said: “The success of this funding round validates our strategy and brings us closer to our aspiration of becoming the world’s first publicly listed Bitcoin company. This investment will further accelerate our growth, and we are excited to strengthen our industry leadership with next-generation hardware and services.” About BitFury Group The BitFury Group was founded in 2011, and is based in San Francisco, CA and Amsterdam, the Netherlands. It is the world’s largest provider of semiconductors, servers and datacenter solutions to the bitcoin and cryptocurrency industry, and one of the largest miners of bitcoin, with computing centers across Finland, Iceland and the Republic of Georgia. For more information on BitFury, please visit: www.bitfury.org VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
