Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Deutsche Telekom will bring its Qivicon home automation hub to the U.S.
Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
T-Mobile’s German parent company, Deutsche Telekom, wants to make a grand entrance in the U.S. home automation market, a space that has heated up considerably in the past few years.
Comcast and AT&T have jumped in, and rumor has it that Apple may follow.
Deutsche Telekom has been selling a home automation and security system called Qivicon in Germany and now will bring the goodness to homes in the U.S. and UK.
Qivicon lets users manually control connected devices in the home or create presets that tell devices what to do under certain circumstances.
Qivicon currently integrates with products from Samsung, Miele, Belkin, WeMo, and some 30 other device brands. But DT hopes to find another large group of home devices to display the “Qivicon Certified” seal in U.S. households. These might include thermostats, motion detectors, wireless adapters, light dimmers, lawn sprinklers, and water controls.
In Germany the Qivicon system, which comprises a hub and two remote wall plugs, sells for the equivalent of $367.
via VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
