Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Perverts will love this new T-shirt with a hidden built-in HD camera Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
A new crowdfunding campaign on Indiegogo would embed a one-ounce always-on HD camera in a T-shirt, hoodie, or fleecie, allowing you to take continuous video of your life and save the pieces you like.
The camera is perhaps three times the size of a quarter, and in one wear mode slips into an “interior compartment” with a “lens port.” All you see on the T-shirt is a little metallic circle which, from any distance, looks sort of like a button.
Public changerooms, here we come.
We’ve already given up on privacy from corporations who track our online moves, of course, and most of the sheeple don’t seem unduly concerned with spooky three-letter government agencies continuously digitally surveilling the entire world, but some obstreperous people still get annoyed by Google Glass-like continuous video recording capabilities.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Now, clearly, they won’t even know they’re on Candid Camera.
The project, called NewViewWear , says this is the “world’s first wearable camera apparel.” The Indiegogo campaign page is filled with smiling people, pets, and sports moments, and I can see all those use cases — although I have no personal desire to wear a camera. But there are clearly other use cases here, and those include surveillance of a less-than-national-security kind.
Above: Quick, spot the camera on the creep! The damn thing even has built-in Wi-Fi, which means that an enterprising creep could charge it up, stick it up somewhere with a good view of whatever he or she wants, and remotely access the video stream.
The just-released project is seeking $100,000, is two days into its campaign, and has just 12 backers who have committed $3,200 so far. I’m sure others will join, perhaps right from this post.
The camera records 1080HD video at 30fps in H.264 encoding, or 720p if you want to save space, and has a 100-degree wide angle view. It can also take 5MP photos and can be set for time-lapse photography.
Here’s the NewViewWear launch video: VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
