Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Netflix's newest open-source project, Security Monkey, hunts for vulnerabilities atop Amazon's cloud Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Netflix’s crazy cloud engineers are at it again — this time with a new open-source tool to optimize the company’s use of Amazon’s public cloud.
The goal is to ensure that Netflix stays secure as several engineers with different accounts change configurations for different parts of Netflix atop Amazon Web Services.
Hence the development Security Monkey, which began in 2011.
“We needed a way to understand how AWS configuration changes impacted our security posture,” Jason Chan, Kevin Glisson, and Patrick Kelley of Netflix’s cloud security team wrote in a blog post about the project. “It was also critical to have access to an authoritative configuration history service for forensic and investigative purposes so that we could know how things have changed over time. We also needed these capabilities at scale across the many accounts we manage and many AWS services we use.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Netflix stands out as one of the most high-profile companies that depend heavily on Amazon’s cloud. It also gets props for sharing its inventions with the rest of the world under open-source licenses alongside a handful of other companies, like Airbnb and Pinterest.
Previous Netflix projects include the Asgard cloud management tool, the Suro data pipeline, and the Lipstick user interface for showing Apache Pig workflows.
With Security Monkey, an admin at a company running applications on AWS can check out historical information about configurations, as well as issues that meet certain criteria. And the person can explain why a certain possible vulnerability is acceptable.
Read the blog post about Security Monkey to learn more about the project, and if you use Amazon’s cloud, you might want to check out Security Monkey on GitHub.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
