Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Gartner scoops up Senexx, a Q&A tool for the enterprise Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Quora may be a great place for the average Joe or even an expert in a field to find and share some great topical knowledge, but what about enterprises and their more robust needs? There’s Senexx for that, actually.
And Senexx is announcing today that market research and consulting firm Gartner is acquiring it, although it hasn’t disclosed the terms of the deal.
Senexx, which bills itself a “Quora on steroids for the enterprise,” provides products to help enterprises build their own knowledge bases. Its main product, SolvePath, is a cloud-based question-and-answer tool that pulls in employee interactions and generates queries and answers, making sure there are no duplicates.
“We have a high regard for the intellectual property and business Senexx has built since it was founded in 2011,” said Gartner chief executive Gene Hall in an official statement.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “We will work with Senexx’s talented leadership team to invest in the development of their innovative platform to benefit our clients while minimizing disruption to their business throughout the integration process,” he said.
Gartner will use Senexx to “enhance its web search capability and augment its content recommendation engine and proprietary social platforms,” according to an official statement. Gartner will also invest in expanding Senexx’s Tel Aviv-based team, adding new software engineering and data science positions.
“Senexx improves productivity by identifying individuals with specific knowledge and experience in a particular subject to help organizations answer questions, solve problems, and realize new opportunities,” said Senexx founder and chief executive Zeevi Michel in an official statement.
“We are excited to accelerate the growth of our platform and products, in addition to applying our proven capability to help Gartner deliver greater service to its clients,” he said.
Senexx was part of Techstars Boston’s 2011 class of startups.
The company was founded in 2011 and is headquartered in Boston, Mass., with research and development operations based in Tel Aviv, Israel. Senexx previously raised $250,000 in seed funding from Techstars, UpWest Labs, and Boston Angels.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
