Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sweden’s Hansoft raises $10M for dev tools Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Hansoft Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Hansoft , a Swedish project management and collaboration software firm, has raised $10 million.
The new round of funding for the company was led by investment firm Hasso Plattner Ventures.
 Hansoft makes the team collaboration tool Agile, which game companies such as Capcom, id Software, and EA’s Bioware have used. Other customers are in the electronics, aerospace, space, and telecom industries.
“We are truly excited that Hasso Plattner Ventures have joined our team of investors,” said Patric Palm, chief executive of Uppsala, Sweden-based Hansoft, in a statement. “Their international network and experience will help us bring Hansoft to a much wider group of users.” Hansoft plans to hire more people at its San Francisco office. The new staff will include a chief growth officer and chief revenue officer.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “Hansoft have already proven themselves able to punch way above their weight, both in terms of creating a fantastic product with leading capabilities, and also their ability to score large enterprise deals in competition with much larger players,” said Hasso Plattner Ventures’ Shmuel Chafets, in a statement. “I’m thrilled to see what they can do with the larger muscles they are now provided.” The company said it has been profitable since day one and wholly and equally owned by its founders Erik Olofsson, Hans Andersson, and Patric Palm. It previously raised funding from Nordic venture capital firm Creandum, the first institutional investor in Spotify.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
