Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter officially joins Facebook, Google in offering mobile app install ads Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
It’s official, Twitter is now offering mobile app installation promotion to all of its advertisers — expect to see the latest download of Candy Crush Saga in your stream.
Earlier this year, Twitter invited certain advertisers, like EA Games and Lyft, to test-drive a feature that promotes app installation through native ads. The app promotion comes as a part of a suite that lets advertisers capitalize on Twitter’s user data to target ads. Users who click on a promoted link will automatically be taken to the App Store or Google Play, where they can download the app. Tweeters on iOS will get a notification when the app finishes downloading.
230 developers with 9K apps and 397M MAU told us what works best in mobile user acquisition: The VB Mobile User Acquisition report Also interesting is Twitter’s accompanying payment model: Advertisers don’t pay until users click on a link. That not only allows advertisers to see that the technology is working, but it also allows Twitter to get paid per click, which could be more lucrative than a flat fee.
This is Twitter’s latest move to bulk up its advertising revenue. Last week the company announced an easier way to advertise with multiple networks on its digital ad exchange, Mopub.
Twitter, like Google and Yahoo, is trying to get in on the mobile advertising dollars that Facebook has been enjoying since it launched its mobile app install program. Not only has Facebook’s advertising revenue grown as a result, but mobile ads now account for nearly 60 percent of its total advertising revenue.
In March , Yahoo told VentureBeat it was testing mobile app promotion tools. Google and Twitter announced their own mobile app install promotion programs shortly thereafter in April.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
