Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages HBO gives Yahoo Screen the first episode of its latest original TV show Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Yahoo’s burgeoning online video service, Yahoo Screen , is getting a hot piece of content from HBO today that should draw attention.
The first episode of TV network’s much-anticipated new drama, The Leftovers , became available for viewing on Yahoo today, and will stay online through July 6. The new series debuted Sunday night, and HBO is hoping to generate some buzz through Yahoo.
Although, Yahoo doesn’t have an exclusive on it. The premiere episode is also now available on the websites of various cable company websites during the sampling period.
Created by Damon Lindelof of Lost fame, The Leftovers is a family drama about people who remain on earth after two percent of the Earth’s population suddenly disappear.
Also today, Community creator Dan Harmon announced that the former NBC series would be getting a sixth season on Yahoo Screen following NBC’s cancellation of the show earlier this year.
Yahoo has been busy signing content deals over the past year to try to make itself look like a real video site. It has an exclusive agreement to offer Saturday Night Live clips, it hired Katie Couric , and even launched or produced a handful of original web series. Yahoo is also rumored to be launching its own streaming video service that would compete directly with YouTube.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
