Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Blackphone, a new encrypted smartphone built from scratch, is now market ready Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Your new encrypted smartphone is now ready to order.
Pre-order actually. The new Blackphone, a smartphone that touts itself as impervious to NSA cryptographers, is almost market ready. Not officially on the shelves of Verizon or T-Mobile yet, the phone is a collaboration between Swiss-based SilentCircle and Geeksphone, which now call themselves SGP Technologies.
Above: Blackphone interface At the heart of smartphone is its new Android-centric operating system, called PrivatOS. The Blackphone comes with built-in industrial grade encryption that protects IMs, voice, video, and chat, according to the designers. The Blackphone costs nearly $700, and you can now pre-order it online.
The Blackphone is partly the brainchild of security guru Phil Zimmerman, perhaps best known as the inventor of encryption tool PGP, which garnered raves when it was released in 2010. The Blackphone is sexy and slim, with a 4.7-inch display, quad-core 2GHz system-on-a-chip processor, and 1GB of LPDDR RAM.
More specs here.
In terms of connectivity, Blackphone has a single Micro-SIM slot, Bluetooth, a Micro USB, and a 3.5 millimeter audio jack. And, yes, it comes with a camera.
Blackphone comes unlocked, and its encryption technology comes loaded on the phone. The Blackphone is indeed black and looks like a smaller version of Samsung’s Galaxy line of smartphones. It compatible with any GSM carrier.
Additional features include secure file and transfer storage and secure and private browsing. Blackphone’s Security Center lets users customize data flows.
Blackphone was initially unveiled at the Mobile World Congress and almost undoubtedly elicited interest from the National Security Agency.
I’m waiting to get my hands on one. Stay tuned.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
