Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages One handy chart shines light on all of the NSA's once-secret spy programs Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn NSA matrix by ProPublica Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
If you’ve been flummoxed by the unrelenting stream of stories and scope of the National Security Agency’s metadata collection programs, you’re not alone.
American online investigative reporting site ProPublica in New York has created a fun and engrossing colorful graphic outlining most of the programs thus far that have come to light by NSA leaker extraordinaire Edward Snowden, who remains holed up in a Moscow flat with a bounty on his head.
The graphic is all the more timely since the office of the Director of National Intelligence, a potential sinkhole of larded bureaucracy, released the NSA’s first ever “transparency” report that begs more questions than it answers. In fact, two U.S. senators blasted the report Monday as anything but transparent.
“Just as with the New York Magazine approval matrix that served as our inspiration, the placement of each program is based on judgments and is approximate,” ProPublica wrote in a post.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! You can use the graphic to test your NSA knowledge. Learn about alleged NSA programs like Prism, Squeaky Dolphin, and HappyFoot. Learn about NSA honey traps, foreign embassy targeting, hacking Anonymous and the Ant Catalog. Learn how they loosed Trojan Horse’s into Apple and Google’s user streams.
The graph is easy to navigate and again. But remember, some of the programs that Snowden outed no longer exist. That’s because many received new acronyms, according to former intelligence officials. And its likely the programs divulged in the leaks are more powerful than before.
For years, the NSA operated on the maxim that deploying the best technology kept them 10 years ahead of their rivals, or 10 years ahead of commercial technology available to the public.
That maxim is no longer valid, as the NSA has had to keep up with developers who need weeks or months to develop apps that takes the agency, and its bureaucracy, months or years to build.
Check out the graphic. Move the cursor over cartoon-like characters that disclose the programs in question. And remember, the NSA really stands for “No Such Agency.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
