Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon cuts the price of its domain-name service in the cloud Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Public-cloud market leader Amazon Web Services is back at it, lowering the prices of its tools. This time, its Route 53 managed domain-name service (DNS) for translating domain names into IP addresses is becoming less expensive.
Didn’t Mark Twain once say, “If you don’t like the prices for Amazon Web Services now, just wait a few minutes”? Anyway. Starting tomorrow, customers pay 40 cents, not 50 cents, for every million queries up to a billion queries per month, according to a blog post today from Amazon cloud chief evangelist Jeff Barr.
Route 53 isn’t the biggest service among Amazon Web Services customers, but now it could become popular and appear more compelling in relation to managed DNS providers like Dyn and EasyDNS.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Price-cutting like this is typical for Amazon Web Services. Other recent cuts have brought down the prices of S3 object storage, EC2 compute instances, and the Elasticache caching service.
New evidence suggests that Amazon cloud price cuts aren’t always the best way to post short-term gains.
But Amazon CFO Tom Szkutak told analysts during the company’s recent earnings call, “[It] is fair to say that [price changes] certainly did impact our Q2 results in a meaningful way.” Expect more price cuts in, oh, another few minutes.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
