Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages European regulators suiting up for another round with Google — this time about Android Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Europe: is Android too big? European regulators are getting ready to pound Google from yet another angle — and one analyst suggests ex-National Security Agency (NSA) analyst Edward Snowden could be an underlying factor.
According to a report yesterday from Reuters, which cited anonymous sources, European Union officials are now looking into whether the company is abusing its 80 percent market share for the Android mobile operating system by pushing its services on consumers.
After a nearly four-year investigation into Google’s search business, and with a new European Union antitrust chief coming aboard in the fall, the regulators appear to be intensifying their efforts with new, more detailed inquiries sent to the company seeking information about these kinds of issues.
“European consumers tend to be much more skeptical of big business than consumers in the U.S. market,” Parks Associates’ Director of Research Brett Sappington told VentureBeat. “[And] European regulators tend to take a more critical view of companies that are perceived to have a dominant position in the marketplace.” But IDC Research Director Scott Shawn also sees another driver behind the European regulators’ ongoing suspicion of the American company: Edward Snowden, the former NSA contractor who released classified documents detailing NSA’s massive surveillance programs.
“Yes, [Google is showing] monopolistic characteristics,” he told us, but the Snowden/NSA factor “adds to what Android is all about.” “The principal way Google collects information,” Shawn said, “is through Android,” and it’s an American company with ties to the NSA.
“It’s an underlying factor that causes people to ask more questions than they otherwise might.” Shawn recalled that Microsoft “ran into similar issues when Windows was growing and [Internet Explorer] was a monopoly on the PC.” At the time, the U.S. Justice Department sued Microsoft , contending that it was using its desktop dominance to unfairly position its Internet Explorer browser.
Although it’s an open-source operating system that handset makers can adopt as they want, they are reportedly legally obligated by Google to pre-install a minimum number of the company’s services on any Android devices.
Whether or not that’s the case will be a key subject of any investigation. Google told Reuters that “anyone can use Android without Google, and anyone can use Google without Android.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
