Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Funding Daily: DNA analysis, housing for spoiled college kids, and … divorce Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Today’s funding includes the usual — a company that claims it has totally changed the way we communicate — and the surprisingly unusual, including a service to streamline divorcing, a new international currency, and a company devoted to fancy apartments for college kids. (Because living in dorms is so pre-tech uprising.) Moogsoft raises $11.3M second round IT operations management company Moogsoft announced today that it has raised $11.3 in a second round of funding , bringing its total funding to $18 million. The round was led by new investor Wing Venture Capital with participation from existing investors, including Redpoint Ventures. The company says it will use the funding to continue building out its technology and international growth.
Read the press release.
‘Uber’ of mortgage lending picks up $3.8M Mortgage lending is still quite broken, and the crisis of the mid-to-late 2000s only made lenders even more fearful of getting tangled up with unreliable borrowers. That’s why Privlo , armed with a fresh $3.8 million in seed funding, is setting out to build an alternative mortgage-lending company.
Read more on VentureBeat: ‘Uber’ of mortgage lending picks up $3.8M Stripe puts $3M into Stellar Stripe might be best known for enabling online merchants and websites to process payments more easily, but its team also strongly believes in decentralized payment networks and cryptocurrencies. Today, Stripe announced that it has invested $3 million into Stellar, which is an open source project, a currency-exchange network, a currency in its own right, and a non-profit. Stellar also launches today.
Read more on VentureBeat: Payment processor Stripe helps launch a new currency, the Stellar Wevorce raises $1.7M Wevorce, a startup that aims to streamline the divorce process and bring it online, today announced a $1.69 million raise in a public filing.
Read more on VentureBeat: Wevorce raises $1.7 million to make divorce less terrible 23andMe gets a $1.4M NIH grant Late last year the FDA barred 23andMe from dispensing health information products to consumers based on analysis of their DNA.
Read more on VentureBeat: 23andMe gets a $1.4M NIH grant, still awaits FDA approval Abodo raises $1.25M for college student apartments Abodo wants college kids to find upscale digs easily. Its investors agreed.
Read more on VentureBeat: Abodo raises $1.25 million for its upscale apartment service for college students Entefy raises $1.1M Entefy , a company that bills itself as “the future of conversation” (seriously), has raised $1.1 million according to an SEC filing.
 The startup closed $1.5 million in funding just a few months ago, and it previously raised over $2 million in its previous round.
Read the SEC filing.
Michael Dell backs Eagle Eye Security cameras are still in the stone ages, but Eagle Eye wants to bring them into the age of the cloud.
Read more on VentureBeat: Michael Dell is funding this company to move surveillance cameras onto the cloud Bigwords takes $300K Bigwords.com is a website where students can find cheap textbooks. But now the company says its launching an online shopping service that automatically integrates crowdsourced coupons with proprietary multi-item price comparison technology. The service is now used by millions of consumers annually, the company says. Bigwords.com also says it’s raised $300,000 from Lighter Capital. Lighter Capital’s investment is the first time Bigwords.com has taken external capital under current ownership.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
