Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Xbox Live is down (again) for many and is causing a black-screen bug Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Xbox Live.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The Xbox One and Xbox 360 are experiencing a number of connection problems thanks to intermittent issues with Microsoft’s online service.
For the third time in two weeks, the Xbox Live service is experiencing network-wide issues. Microsoft confirmed on its Xbox Live status website that gamers on Xbox One and Xbox 360 are having trouble joining others in online multiplayer games. Other gamers are having trouble managing their friends list or accessing the activity feed that keeps Xbox One owners informed about their friends’ actions.
We reached out to Microsoft for a comment, and the company provided the following statement: “Xbox Live is experiencing temporary service interruptions with Xbox One and Xbox 360 social and gaming features,” a Microsoft spokesperson said. “Our engineering teams are working quickly to fix the problem, and we expect service to be back to full performance as soon as possible. We will update you as soon as Xbox Live is up and running and appreciate your patience as we work to get you back to your gaming and entertainment experiences. In the meantime, our apologies for the interruption.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The Xbox Live status site goes on to note that many gamers are getting a black-screen bug when they try to launch apps and games on Xbox 360. It is also working to fix that problem.
Xbox Live also experienced issues yesterday as well as two weeks ago, and we’ve asked Microsoft to explain what is causing the frequent outages.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
