Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Study: Marketing automation lacks experienced users, demands more resources Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Mid-sized B2B companies and corporations that use marketing automation platforms (MAPs) lack experienced users and underestimate the amount of resource needed to drive effective MAP adoption. Those are just two of the conclusions from SiriusDecisions ‘ annual marketing automation report, which focuses on the emerging trends in the adoption and use of marketing automation platforms across a wide variety of B2B organizations.
We asked Jay Famico, VP Technology at SiriusDecisions, for more background on the training and resource gap in marketing automation.
“What we’ve seen is that those who have experience with MAP have been promoted quickly,” Famico explains, “and, as MAP matures in vertical markets outside of high-tech, you see a lot of users recently working with MAP for the first time. Expertise will certainly improve and grow over time across the board to support MAP initiatives.” And while the data shows that there are nearly 11 times more B2B organizations using marketing automation solutions now than in 2011, the total number of businesses using them is still small. We’ve reported before that only about three percent of non-tech companies have yet adopted marketing automation , and SiriusDecisions’ data appears to support that statement.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! VentureBeat’s VB Insight team is studying compensation for digital marketing execs.
Chime in here, and we’ll share the results.
It isn’t all bad news, though. The survey shows that nurturing tactics are evolving. More MAP users are coming to grips with taking email communications beyond the ‘on-rails drip campaign’ that has dominated early marketing automation adoption.
Here’s all the data, in infographic form: VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
