Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Palantir buys mobile-development startup Propeller Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Palantir Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Palantir, a big data company that has worked with U.S. Army and other government customers, just bought itself a mobile-development startup called Propeller.
 That’s the second Palantir acquisition this week — and easily the more interesting one.
On its homepage, Propeller reps confirmed the deal. But we’re unclean on exactly what Palantir wants out of Propeller.
“Having tackled many technical challenges facing mobile app creation, we’re eager to solve important problems at Palantir on a global scale,” the Propeller message states.
Perhaps Palantir merely wants to bolster its mobile development capabilities in order to better meet the needs of its customers. That area lies far away from Palantir’s core strengths, which include analyzing lots of data at scale.
Palantir’s acquisition earlier this week of Poptip , which boasted natural-language processing capabilities, seems much more in line with Palantir’s business.
Propeller, which lets people easily build native mobile apps, went through the StartX accelerator at Stanford University in fall 2012. The startup’s market has proven interesting to Microsoft and other companies.
Clay Allsopp and Brian Rowen started Propeller last year.
Investors include Andreessen Horowitz, Scott Banister, Foundation Capital, ffAngel, Ashton Kutcher, Max Levchin, Menlo Ventures, Jason Portnoy, Keith Rabois, and Rothenberg Ventures.
Palantir, based in Palo Alto, Calif., should have money left over to buy more startups. It confirmed a $107.5 million funding round late last year.
Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
