Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple's iWatch isn't shipping until next year Jay Yarow, Business Insider Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Apple "iWatch" concept by UI designer Todd Hamilton Apple’s wearable gadget — which everyone calls the iWatch — isn’t going to be on your wrist anytime soon, says John Paczkowski at Re/code.
He says it will be announced on September 9, but might not arrive until early 2015: Sources in position to know tell me it won’t arrive at market for a few months. “It’s not shipping any time soon,” said one. So when does Apple plan to ship its eagerly anticipated wearable? That’s not clear, but my understanding is that we’re unlikely to see it at retail until after the holiday season — think early 2015.
Paczkowski has been all over the timing of Apple’s announcements, so we trust him on this one.
When Apple announced the iPhone, it didn’t start selling the phone for six months. When Apple announced the iPad, it took weeks before it went on sale.
It looks like Apple is doing the same thing with the iWatch, which is a new product category for Apple.
The iWatch is reportedly going to be used for health and fitness tracking. It will also reportedly offer some sort of mobile payments solution.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
