Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Blueprint Genetics raises $3.9 million to bring genomic diagnostics service to the U.S.
Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Genomic research has come a long way in recent years. Once the legal and regulatory issues are figured out, the research may provide the basis for a new data-driven care delivery model that could revolutionize health care.
One company that’s pushing the puck forward is genetics startup Blueprint Genetics , which has developed a new way of sequencing the genome based on Stanford research, and a proprietary software for gleaning diagnostic information from it. Blueprint says its method is faster and more cost-efficient than other methods. And today, the company announced a new $3.9 million funding round raised from unnamed investors.
Academic research has identified the molecular genetic backgrounds of more than 3,500 inherited diseases. But health organizations have lacked software systems sophisticated enough to quickly and accurately diagnose disease using that data. And that’s where Blueprint is finding its niche.
This is how it works: The care provider sends some of a patient’s genetic material to Blueprint. The company then sequences the genome and returns its diagnostic results via a website. All reports include a geneticist statement evaluating the patient history and describing the pathological mutation findings.
“All of our diagnostic panels represent the latest research on the field and analyses and clinical interpretations are made by our clinicians and geneticists,” Blueprint says at its website.
The service differs from that of 23andMe in that it is available only to health care professionals, not consumers.
In 2013, the company entered the market with its first product category, providing diagnostics for inherited cardiovascular disorders.
Blueprint already has more than 60 hospital customers in 10 countries. It’ll use its new funding money to bring its technology to hospitals in the U.S.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
