Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Fashion shopping site Itugo reportedly raises 8-figure investment for its photo-sharing app Emma Lee, TechNode Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Itugo , a social shopping platform that focuses on the sale of female branded products, reportedly received an eight-figure investment from Matrix Partners , Incapital , and National Foundation under Chinese Academy of Science. The company has received seed financing from a Zhejiang-based fund last November.
Launched in July 2012, the Hangzhou-based startup helps female users buy clothes or accessories while they browse the Internet. It also provides female consumers a platform to share their shopping experiences. Unlike other social shopping sites like Mogujie, Itugo only sells branded products.
The site now claims to have more than 15 million users and works with over 10,000 womens fashion brands. After two years of development, Itugo now has more than 80 employees with core team members who have previously worked at Alibaba, local portal platform 19lou , and Zhejiang Daily Media Group.
According to the company, the funds will be used to continue developing In, a social photo-sharing app for girls. After logging in with either Sina Weibo or QQ accounts, In users can add various tags, like brands, location, interests, digital stickers or any comments to the pictures, and share them with friends.
Itugo rolled out In three months ago to capitalize on the rise of mobile trend. The app has recorded more than 2 million active users to date, according to data released by the company.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
