Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Floodgate closes its fifth fund with more of the same Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Mike Maples, managing partner of the Floodgate Fund.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it, right? That’s exactly what seed-stage venture firm Floodgate is thinking as it closes its fifth and new fund. According to a filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, this fund of just under $76 million, more or less the same size as its previous two , is again headed by managing partners Mike Maples Jr. and Ann Miura-Ko. Moreover, the fund will also have the same investing strategy, according to Fortune.
Floodgate has previously invested in buzzy startups such as Lyft, AngelList, IFTTT, Xamarin, Bigcommerce, TaskRabbit, and TapTalk, which SV Angel discovered on Product Hunt, resulting in the company raising a round of funding.
Among its investments, several have already exited, included Dasient (Twitter), DemandForce (Intuit), Gowalla (Facebook), ng:moco (DeNA), Playdom (Disney), and most recently Twitch.tv, which Amazon acquired.
 Maples invested in Justin.tv, Twitch.tv’s earlier incarnation, just before it graduated from Y Combinator and raised its first institutional round from Alsop Louie Partners and Felicis Ventures.
Floodgate was previously Maples Investments and morphed into Floodgate in 2010 with the addition of Miura-Ko and other tweaks to the firm’s setup.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
