Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Funding Daily: A shoe company picks up a big bag of cash on the road to an IPO Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Today’s funding deals: JustFab raises $85M JustFab is on a meteoric rise, closing a whopping $85 million round — less than one year after bringing in $40 million in its third round of funding. The 5-year-old company got its start in shoes, offering a fixed-price ($39.95) monthly shoe subscription to its members, eventually adding additional categories such as bags and clothes. Now it’s raising mountains of cash at an alleged $1 billion valuation and putting itself on what appears to be a path to an IPO, as Pando noted.
Read more on VentureBeat: JustFab raises $85M as it eyes an IPO eNeura grabs $5.8M eNeura , a medical devices company, has just raised about $5.8 million in equity funding according to a filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The company focuses on portable, non-invasive transcranial magnetic stimulation devices that stop or reduces migraines. The devices are prescribed by physicians but designed to be easily used at home by patients. The company was founded in 2000 and is based in Sunnyvale, Calif. The company has previously raised $7.7 million in debt and equity financing.
Read more in the SEC filing.
Blueprint Genetics raises $3.9 million Genomic research has come a long way in recent years. Once the legal and regulatory issues are figured out, such products may provide the basis for a new data-driven care delivery model that could revolutionize health care. One company that’s pushing the puck forward is genetics startup Blueprint Genetics , which has developed a new way of sequencing the genome based on Stanford research, as well as a proprietary software for gleaning diagnostic information from it. Blueprint says its method is faster and more cost-efficient than other methods. And today, the company announced a new $3.9 million funding round raised from unnamed investors.
Read more on VentureBeat: Blueprint Genetics raises $3.9 million to bring genomic diagnostics service to the U.S.
KnightScope picks up $1.5M Knightscope , a startup that says it’s building autonomous robots that can predict and prevent crime, yesterday submitted a regulatory filing proving that it’s raised $1.52 million. The startup, whose technology calls to mind the 1987 Robocop (which we still absolutely love to watch), announced a $1 million seed round in February. Investors include Bright Success Capital, Anthony Saleh, and Paul J. Elberse, according to the AngelList page for the startup, which is based in Mountain View, Calif.
Read more in the SEC filing.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
