Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Destiny preorder deals heat up this weekend (updated) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Destiny's back.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
This is a sponsored post produced by Dealzon.
Update 9/9/14: Now that Destiny is obviously released, all the pre-order deals below are now expired. If you’re still on the sideline, Microsoft is enticing gamers with an Xbox One with free copy of Destiny offer for just this week. Plus, they’re throwing in an additional $50 Xbox gift card for your trouble. Not bad? Just add to cart and select your free game (Destiny or any other 34 titles qualifies).
In less than 6 days 12 days , Bungie’s long-awaited Destiny will make its debut on September 9th. With the release fast approaching, several notable preorder deals popped up this Labor Day weekend, including a rare cash discount and a $10 bonus + release day delivery offer.
Preorder deal at Microsoft Store > Get Destiny on Xbox One for $59.99 + FREE $10 Xbox gift code & FREE release day delivery.
> Get Destiny on Xbox 360 for $59.990 + FREE $10 Xbox gift code & FREE release day delivery.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! If you’re looking to snag the game on either the Xbox One or Xbox 360, your best preorder option will be the Microsoft Store. You’ll have to pay the full MSRP tag, but they’re throwing in a bonus $10 Xbox gift code (arrives via email), and in addition to that, if you pre-order by Friday, September 5th at 2pm Pacific, the MS Store is guaranteeing you’ll receive a copy of Destiny on the September 9th release date. Not bad at all, as you won’t have to step out of your house, yet you’ll still be able to play on Day 1. This includes the Vanguard Armory set preorder bonus too.
Preorder deal at Best Buy > Destiny is $59.99 ( all platforms ) + $10 in rewards certificate at Best Buy.
> Free store pickup option available to have the title on release day.
If you’re a frequent Best Buy shopper, there’s another incentive out there that might be just as appealing as the others. My Best Buy Rewards members can preorder Destiny and get $10 in Rewards Certificate points credited to your account. Shipping is free, but if you want the game on its release date, you can do so by selecting store pickup at checkout.
Preorder deal at Kmart > Destiny is $59.99 (Xbox 360) + up to $40 in Shop Your Way points > Free shipping from Kmart – use this offer for the additional points Those considering the Groupon deal because they don’t mind waiting a few days for the game to arrive also might want to consider Kmart, which is offering the game on all platforms (although only the Xbox 360 is left in stock as of writing). When you order from Kmart, you’ll earn $20 in Shop Your Way points during checkout (free membership to join). Better yet, a special limited time offer on Facebook will net you an additional $20 in points, making this a total $40 value in points. That’s almost enough points to pick up another game.
Preorder deal at Groupon > Destiny is $53.99 ( all platforms ) with free ship at Groupon > Use coupon: LABOR10 Groupon tosses its hat in the ring as another contender for best preorder offer this weekend. For this Labor Day weekend only (through Sep. 1st), it’s launched a 10% off coupon code taking $6 off Destiny ‘s $59.99 price tag. Shipping will commence once the September 9th release date hits, but it’s a rare thing to see a cash discount on a AAA console pre-order game. Unlike the Microsoft Store, the same 10% off coupon on Destiny applies to all platforms: PS4, PS4, Xbox One, and Xbox 360.
Additional preorder bonus In addition to bonuses offered at the aforementioned retailers, preordering will get you access to the “Vanguard Armory Set” DLC. This is an exclusive offer for preorders only and includes early access to weapons and other gear on Day One that would otherwise unlock later in the game. Both the Microsoft Store and Best Buy are offering this as an incentive, while it appears Groupon is not.
Looking for preorder deals on the Destiny Digital Guardians Edition or the Ghost Edition? Unfortunately you’re out of luck, as these premium editions are good margins for the retailers with no discounts or further incentives available at time of writing. (In fact, these limited editions appears to be sold out at many retailers across the web.) GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
