Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Saints Row: Gat Out of Hell is a new $20 standalone expansion from Volition Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Johnny Gat, who died and went to hell and came back after going through some changes, is a metaphor for THQ.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Developer Volition is working on more content for its open-world crime game, Saints Row.
The studio revealed Saints Row: Gat Out of Hell today during its panel at the annual Penny Arcade Expo event in Seattle. The demon-themed downloadable release is due out in 2015 for $20. While the developer is calling this an expansion, it won’t require Saints Row IV for anyone to play it.
The expansion is due out Jan. 27 for Xbox One, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and PC.
Volition confirmed that Gat Out of Hell will feature The Devil, a talking weapon, and a full-length musical sequence. It will also include weapons based on the seven deadly sins. Sloth, for example, is a mobile recliner with two chainguns attached to it.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The company previously teased the expansion game by sending out packages to press that contained witchcraft-related items and by posting an image of a Ouija board with the Saints Row’s iconic fleur-de-lis.
Above: We think the spirits are trying to tell us yes.
Volition most recently released Saints Row: IV for Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and PC. That action game took the traditional Grand Theft Auto car-driving formula of the previous Saints Row games and shook it up by giving the player superpowers. Now, instead of hopping in a sedan to get from point to point, players could jump over buildings and glide in mid-air.
Saints Row is one of Volition publisher Deep Silver’s biggest franchises. Volition, which was previously a subsidiary of now-defunct publisher THQ, began the series as something of a knockoff of the megapopular GTA games, but Saints Row has carved out its own identity with recent releases.
Saints Row: The Third took a turn into the absurd by focusing on humor and characters. The fourth game, which was originally intended to debut as downloadable content for The Third, amplified the absurdity.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
