Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored The Sims 4 Limited Edition vs Deluxe Edition compared Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
This sponsored post is produced by Dealzon.
Tick tock. Less than three days left until The Sims 4 is officially released! If you still haven’t preordered or preloaded yet, you’re probably on the fence about which edition of The Sims 4 to purchase. (And if you’re not a die hard Sims fan, we’re not sure why you’re reading this.) Release week deal! You can get The Sims 4 for $ 51.
00 (that’s 15% off, also valid in UK/EU) using promo code QRJ1I6-2SSDU0-LN9UUG While The Sims 4 will undoubtedly be filled with a multitude of DLCs, packs, and expansions years after release, luckily for most of us the decision is only between two specific editions: The Sims 4 Limited Edition vs The Sims 4 Deluxe Edition.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The differences are mainly in the additional content you’ll find with the Deluxe Edition. Take note that the “Limited Edition” is available as a preorder special, and for a limited time after the game is released. Generally after the game is released, you’ll only see The Sims 4 Standard Edition on store shelves.
Quick Compare – The Sims 4 Standard Edition: This is the base game that will show up in the Origin Store and other retailers a few days after the game is released.
– The Sims 4 Limited Edition: Includes the Life of the Party Digital Content. Comes with the Flaming Tiki Bar furniture and extra outfits for your Sims.
– The Sims 4 Deluxe Edition: Comes with the same Life of the Party pack noted above along with TWO additional packs: 1) The “Up All Night” content, which gives you the Laser Light Show item along with decorations to throw parties.
2) The “Awesome Animal Hats” content which features a series of fun animal hats for your Sims to wear. (Yes, really.) 3) Finally the Deluxe Edition comes with The Sims 4 digital soundtrack so you can listen to the soundtrack while you’re not playing the Sims 4. (We suppose some people will want to do that.) The Sims 4 Digital Deluxe… worth it? All in all, the extra $10 for the two additional packs plus soundtrack is probably only worth it if you’re a die hard Sims 4 fan. You’ll most likely be able to find these included in future Stuff packs, expansions, or as an additional download, though we suspect it may cost slightly more than $10 to gather all three, given the Limited Edition won’t be widely available for sale after release date.
Take note that the Digital Deluxe Edition is only available at the Origin Store.. and if you purchase at the Origin Store, you’ll receive the “Great Game Guaranteed” which lets you receive a refund within 24 hours of launching the game or within 7 days of purchase if you don’t enjoy the game.
For those looking beyond digital editions, The Sims 4 Premium Edition is a physical copy of the game for $79.99. You’ll get all the things mentioned in the Digital Deluxe along with a nice spiffy “Creator’s Guide” hardcover book. Is the book worth an extra $10? We’ll let you decide.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
