Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple seeds the final pre-release version of OS X Yosemite to developers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn On the heels of Microsoft’s Windows 10 unveiling , Apple released the golden master (GM) version of OS X Yosemite to developers today.
This release should be the final version of OS X Yosemite before its public launch — the version which ships to consumers — although if there are major bugs Apple could choose to delay the release. Apple was previously expected to release the Yosemite GM in late October.
There are rumors Apple will host an media event in late October. It’s expected OS X Yosemite will launch around that time along with other anticipated products like Apple Pay and the latest iPad generation.
For developers, the latest update is available here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
