Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Deem grabs $50M to help companies maximize their bottom lines (update) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Update at 11:55 p.m. Pacific: Update with details about the company’s announcement of $50 million in July.
Deem is a San Francisco company with a couple other offices in the world, and it might be one of the most ambitious companies I’ve never heard of until today. And to fuel that ambition, it has raised $30 million in new funding, according to a legal filing today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, though a company announcement from July pegs the number at $50 million.
But here’s why I’m amazed. If you look through its site, it offers one set of products to help companies save in all possible ways, one set of offerings for businesses to maximize their sales, and another bunch of offerings to help them spread promotions and acquire users and customers. To do so, it has several partners in its networks, including Office Depot, Samsung, 3M, Foursquare, Microsoft, American Express, and MasterCard, among others. Deem’s customers can tap into these networks, such as partners for more cost-effective business travel for their employees,.
Basically, it seems like its a large suite to take care of a good chunk of what a business would need to maximize its bottom line — shrink spending and up revenue.
According to the filing, Deem has raised $30 million of the total of $68 million that it seeks to raise. The company has been around since 2000 and now has offices in Scottsdale, Ariz.; Seacaucus, N.J.; and Bangalore, India.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
