Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release MapR Achieves Highest Score for Current Offering in NoSQL Key-Value Databases Report by Independent Research Firm Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn SAN JOSE, Calif.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–September 30, 2014– MapR Technologies, Inc.
, provider of the top-ranked distribution for Apache™ Hadoop®, today announced that it was among the select companies that Forrester Research, Inc., invited to participate in its September 2014 report entitled The Forrester Wave™: NoSQL Key-Value Databases, Q3 2014. In this evaluation, MapR was cited as a Leader and achieved the highest score for Current Offering among all reviewed vendors.
“This acknowledgement that MapR earned the highest score for its current offering across all evaluated NoSQL key-value database products comes on the heels of it also earning the highest score for its current offering among all reviewed Big Data Hadoop Solutions 2 ,” said Jack Norris, chief marketing officer, MapR Technologies. “For us, this is further validation of our technology lead for enterprise production success.” The MapR Distribution including Apache Hadoop is a proven, enterprise-grade platform that supports a broad set of mission-critical and real-time production uses. Enabling organizations to successfully leverage the power of Hadoop, MapR provides a secure multi-tenant environment with high availability, disaster recovery, consistent snapshots, and the best in-Hadoop database, MapR-DB, to reliably run both operational and analytical processing in one platform.
To access a copy of The Forrester Wave TM : NoSQL Key-Value Databases, Q3 2014 please visit here.
1 “The Forrester Wave TM: , NoSQL Key-Value Databases, Q3 2014.
 Copyright (c) 2014, Forrester Research, Inc.
2 “The Forrester Wave TM: Big Data Hadoop Solutions, Q1 2014, February 2014. Copyright (c) 2014, Forrester Research, Inc.
About MapR Technologies MapR delivers on the promise of Hadoop with a proven, enterprise-grade platform that supports a broad set of mission-critical and real-time production uses. MapR brings unprecedented dependability, ease-of-use and world-record speed to Hadoop, NoSQL, database and streaming applications in one unified distribution for Hadoop. MapR is used by more than 500 customers across financial services, government, healthcare, manufacturing, media, retail and telecommunications as well as by leading Global 2000 and Web 2.0 companies. Amazon, Cisco, Google and HP are part of the broad MapR partner ecosystem. Investors include Google Capital, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Mayfield Fund, NEA, Qualcomm Ventures and Redpoint Ventures. MapR is based in San Jose, CA.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
