Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft unveils the new Windows: Windows 10 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A display at a Microsoft Windows press event in San Francisco on Sept. 30.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
SAN FRANCISCO — Microsoft today announced the next generation of its Windows operating system.
It’s not Windows 9 or WindowsOne. It’s Windows 10. It’ll be available for everyone next year, and insiders can start testing the OS tomorrow.
With Windows 10, Microsoft is apparently introducing “a new way of doing things,” Terry Myerson, executive vice president of operating systems, told the press today.
Microsoft wants to make it easy for developers to build applications for multiple devices, and that will be possible with Windows 10, Myerson said.
Above: Joe Belfiore gives reports a first look at the Windows 10 start menu.
The initial focus is on desktop, but gradually Microsoft is moving the new components of Windows 10 to touch-enabled devices, said Joe Belfiore, corporate vice president of the operating systems group at Microsoft. The look of features on touch-enabled devices like the charms bar will change, he said.
One new feature worth noting: Internet search results can show up in the new start menu, Belfiore said.
For Windows users at big companies, it’s also noteworthy that Windows is getting more sophisticated about handling different kinds of workloads at the same time. “We now support multiple desktops,” Belfiore said. But for those who like keyboard shortcuts, the alt-tab function works just fine for switching apps with the new multiple-desktops feature.
And when you use a two-in-one mobile device like a Surface, Windows changes its experience based on whether you’re touching the screen or using the keyboard.
Above: Windows’ Start menu has returned.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
