Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages The main reason you don't use a health wearable? You're apathetic and cheap.
Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Should we be surprised that a quarter of people in a recent survey now use a wearable device or app to track their weight? Or should we be surprised that the three-quarters that don’t do it cite a general lack of interest as the main reason? Or that nearly half of them would be more likely to use one if it were provided free by their physician or health insurance company? No real surprises. Most people are fat, apathetic, and cheap. And it’s not just me saying that. The above stats come from a new report out today from TechnologyAdvice.
Lots of tech companies are seeing those same numbers are a real opportunity. They’re hoping that wearables and apps might drive a new health and fitness golden age, like the advent of fitness clubs did back in the 1980s. #spandex #headbands #olivianewtonjohn The survey also searched for insights about what can be done to increase the use of health wearables and apps to produce greater benefits for the healthcare system.
Here are the key findings: Source: TechnologyAdvice VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
