Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare preorders are still sluggish Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Players can soar through the air, but Advanced Warfare's preorders are not.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Activision is one of the biggest video game publishers in the world thanks to a handful of gigantic properties. But as it unleashes its upcoming megahit, its most successful brand of the last 10 years looks like it’s starting to lose its sales luster.
Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare preorders continue to track more than 50 percent behind 2013’s Ghosts, according to Cowen and Company analyst Doug Cruetz. The industry-tracking expert notes that Advanced Warfare is tracking 80 percent behind 2012’s Black Ops II. Call of Duty game regularly generate $1 billion in revenue for Activision, but Ghosts didn’t perform as well as Black Ops II. If Advanced Warfare sells worse than Ghosts, this could signify that the franchise is on a permanent decline.
Of course, it’s important to keep in mind that a poor-performing Call of Duty is still likely going to end the year as one of the industry’s best-selling games. In a note to investors, Sterne Agee analyst Arvind Bhatia says that he expects Advanced Warfare to sell 17 million copies — that’s down 15 percent from Ghosts’ 20 million copies sold.
“We believe that the preorders [for Call of Duty] need to accelerate significantly over the next few weeks,” Cruetz wrote. “Or else the evidence for meaningfully weaker performance by Advanced Warfare vs. Ghosts will, in our opinion, become too strong to rationalize.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The Cowen analyst notes that Call of Duty’s biggest problem right now is that gamers are still busy playing Destiny. If players don’t switch that game off and start looking toward their next shooter, Advanced Warfare could get off to a sluggish start.
“Call of Duty faces a very competitive slate following its launch on Nov. 4, with Halo, Grand Theft Auto, Assassin’s Creed, Far Cry, and Dragon Age all scheduled for release between the Nov. 11 and Nov. 18,” said Cruetz. “With light competition pre-release and heavy competition post-release, we think a slow start for CoD could be difficult to overcome.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
