Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Act-On goes mobile — and old-school — hooking in phone calls to marketing automation Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Marketing automation platform Act-On and Ifbyphone announced a partnership today that integrates Ifbyphone’s call tracking with Act-On’s technology, helping marketers add good old-fashioned phone calls to their digital marketing metrics.
But that’s not as old-school as it seems, Ifbyphone’s VP of partnerships says.
In fact, it’s a direct result of new-school marketing.
“Search inquiries and digital marketing generate billions of inbound calls to businesses in the U.S. alone every month,” Ifbyphone’s Josh Mallamud said in a statement. “Data-driven marketers must be able to leverage that call data in lead analysis, scoring, and nurturing if they wish to truly optimize marketing’s impact on revenue.” What that means is that Act-On customers will be able to monitor and track phone calls alongside other metrics such as website visits, email opens, and ad clicks, helping to build a better, more holistic view of return on investment for campaigns. Essentially it ties the last mile connection — you or me picking up the phone and directly calling a company — with the originating source of that engagement.
That’s old-school in the sense of using mobile devices for actually talking — how 1980s — but new-school in that digital marketing, done right, leads to consumer engagement with companies. And there’s no greater sign of engagement than an interested prospect dialing your phone number.
This will play extremely well to Act-On’s client base, who are mostly small- and medium-sized businesses. Many of them have physical addresses and a desire to connect with local consumers, according to the VentureBeat Marketing Automation Index, where it is a top 10 pick.
The partnership will enable “customers to more effectively measure the impact of their multi-channel marketing programs,” Act-On’s Gal Josefsberg said, adding that it will enhance “a marketer’s ability to tailor campaigns based on prospect interest.” Ifbyphone’s platform, called Voice360, has now processed over one billion minutes of voice engagement for its customers, the company said.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
