Microsoft Has ‘Utmost Confidence’ in OpenAI Following Sam Altman Ouster Save 25% and Read now Exclusive Before OpenAI Ousted Altman, Employees Disagreed Over AI ‘...
OpenAI President Brockman Resigns Following CEO Firing Exclusive Interim OpenAI CEO: Microsoft Has ‘Utmost Confidence’ in...
The Weekend Live By the Valley, Die By the Valley Nov. 18, 2023 The Briefing What Went Down at OpenAI Nov. 17, 2023 Pro Weekly Pro Weekly: Software Budgets Rising Nov. 17, 2023 Creator Economy How Whistleblowers Changed Our Understanding of Meta Nov. 16, 2023 Dealmaker Venture Capitalists Can’t Hold Off on Markdowns Forever Nov. 16, 2023 AI Agenda Regulation Drama in Silicon Valley; Why AI Agents Haven’t Lived Up To The Hype Nov. 16, 2023 The Electric The Electric: After GM and Cruise, Dan Ammann’s New Adventure—Big-Time Lithium Mining Nov. 16, 2023 Crypto Global Another Fintech Drops Crypto Nov. 15, 2023 SpaceX’s Starship Flew for Longer on Second Launch Nov. 18, 2023 OpenAI Board Fired Altman Minutes Before Public Statement, Brockman Says Nov. 17, 2023 OpenAI Leaders Split on AI ‘Safety’ Before Ousting Altman Nov. 17, 2023 Apple, Disney and Lionsgate Join X Advertiser Exodus After Musk Post Nov. 17, 2023 OpenAI Ousts Sam Altman for Misleading Board Nov. 17, 2023 OpenAI-Backed Kick Shuts Down Creator Bank Accounts Nov. 17, 2023 TikTok Under Fire for Antisemitism, Bin Laden Videos Nov. 17, 2023 Google Delays Cloud Release of Gemini AI Nov. 16, 2023 Pichai Hints at Phased Rollout for Google’s Gemini AI Nov. 16, 2023 Meta Executive Questions Hype Around Generative AI Nov. 16, 2023 IBM Suspends Advertising on X Over Antisemitism Concerns Nov. 16, 2023 Apple to Improve Support for Green Bubble Texts Sent to Android Users Nov. 16, 2023 AWS Launches Generative AI App Builder For Consumers Nov. 16, 2023 GM’s Cruise Robotaxi Unit Cancels Employee Share Sale, Triggering Layoff Concerns Nov. 16, 2023 Microsoft to Sell AI From Cohere as Business Moves Beyond OpenAI Nov. 16, 2023 Todd Hooper on How a Fintech Reckoning Is Rippling Through a Small Bank in Washington Evan Welch on How Trucking Startup Convoy Drove Itself Into the Ground Pano anthos on Why Dave Clark and Ryan Petersen Butted Heads at Flexport Pano anthos on A Tangled Mess of Tech: JPMorgan’s Tall Task to Integrate First Republic Jud Valeski on OpenAI Considers Creating an App Store for AI Software Joseph Bohrer on Investors Say They’re Fed Up With Amazon’s Big Bets Brad Templeton on SoftBank’s Onetime Pizza-Robot Darling Shuts Down and Image: OpenAI Chief Scientist Ilya Sutskever. Photo via Getty ai Before OpenAI Ousted Altman, Employees Disagreed Over AI ‘Safety’ and OpenAI’s ouster of CEO Sam Altman on Friday followed internal arguments among employees about whether the company was developing artificial intelligence safely enough, according to people with knowledge of the situation. Such disagreements were high on the minds of some employees during an impromptu all-hands meeting following the firing....
OpenAI’s ouster of CEO Sam Altman on Friday followed internal arguments among employees...
OpenAI President Brockman Resigns Following CEO Firing and OpenAI President Greg Brockman, who helped launch the artificial intelligence developer and has been key to developing ChatGPT and other core products, has resigned, according to a person with knowledge of the situation. The move came after the company's board fired CEO Sam Altman earlier Friday. Brockman was a member of the six-member ...
OpenAI President Greg Brockman, who helped launch the artificial intelligence developer and has...
startups ai Interim OpenAI CEO: Microsoft Has ‘Utmost Confidence’ in Startup Following Altman Departure and OpenAI Interim CEO Mira Murati on Friday told staff in a companywide meeting that its relationship with Microsoft—its biggest outside source of capital and computing power—was stable following the sudden firing of CEO Sam Altman, according to people with knowledge of the meeting. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and CTO Kevin Scott...
OpenAI Interim CEO Mira Murati on Friday told staff in a companywide meeting that its...
culture The Dating App Founder Who Wants You to Stop Swiping Within minutes of meeting Amanda Bradford, founder of dating app The League, I had to bring up the company’s did-they-really-just-say-that subway ads. “Date someone with a 5-year plan that makes you want to ovulate” one reads; “Achieve multiple goalgasms” suggests another. Covering three New York...
Within minutes of meeting Amanda Bradford, founder of dating app The League, I had to bring up...
startups culture For Arabs in Tech, a Time of Fear and a Culture of Silence Amid the Israeli military’s siege of Gaza in late October, Ali, an Arab American tech investor, decided to send a letter to over 200 of his firm’s portfolio founders, fellow investors and other work contacts. He began the letter by saying he was outraged by the Hamas terror attacks of October 7 and he prayed for the safe return of...
Amid the Israeli military’s siege of Gaza in late October, Ali, an Arab American tech...
Why (and How) SMBs and Creators Will Win With AI, the New Financing Contracts, and More A few weeks ago, Sam predicted the end of the "venture capital industrial complex," a term he coined to refer to the old way of doing things in the industry. And so, I asked him this week, how—amid news of major new fundraises—that was holding up. That, and lots more, on this week's episode of More or Less. Apple ...
A few weeks ago, Sam predicted the end of the "venture capital industrial complex," a...
startups Finance ‘Figma Took Their Lunch Money’: How $2 Billion Design Startup InVision Fell Apart The founder and CEO of InVision saw the siege coming. His successful user interface design startup was growing fast, having built a product that some expected to put Adobe, the juggernaut of the design industry, back on its heels. But Adobe was working on a next-generation app of its own, and another upstart, Figma, was gaining momentum with...
The founder and CEO of InVision saw the siege coming. His successful user interface design...
google ai Google Delays Release of Gemini AI That Aims to Compete With OpenAI Google’s company-defining effort to catch up to ChatGPT creator OpenAI is turning out to be harder than expected. Google representatives earlier this year told some cloud customers and business partners they would get access to the company’s new conversational AI, a large language model known as Gemini, by November. But the company...
Google’s company-defining effort to catch up to ChatGPT creator OpenAI is turning out to be...
Two Startups Reject Web Summit Money in Fallout From Ex-CEO’s Remarks Web Summit attempted to put a turbulent chapter behind it this week, drawing more than 70,000 attendees to the annual tech conference in Lisbon. But the fallout from its former CEO's remarks isn’t over. Two Israeli startups, Lasso Security and Ask-AI, are rejecting the investments of the tech conference’s venture arm after former...
Web Summit attempted to put a turbulent chapter behind it this week, drawing more than 70,000...
crypto Finance JPMorgan’s Blockchain Business Onyx Searches for Its Identity—and Revenue In early 2022, JPMorgan Chase proudly claimed it was the first bank to enter the metaverse. Inside a crypto-focused virtual world called Decentraland, users could visit the swanky Onyx lounge, named after the bank’s blockchain operations, to mingle with fellow crypto enthusiasts and watch videos of the bank’s experts discussing...
In early 2022, JPMorgan Chase proudly claimed it was the first bank to enter the metaverse. ...
ai VCs and Tech Companies at Odds Over AI Regulation and Regulating artificial intelligence was always going to be a thorny issue. But a few months into Washington’s push to do so, the question of how to oversee powerful large language models and other AI is sharply dividing the tech community. On Tuesday, a venture capital industry group released a set of guidelines on “responsible...
Regulating artificial intelligence was always going to be a thorny issue. But a few months into...
and venture capital Coatue Raises $1.4 Billion Fund, Cuts Fees as Venture Firms Navigate Frigid Market and To entice their investors off the sidelines, venture capital firms are turning to a tactic used during the dot-com bust: discounts. Coatue Management recently raised $1.4 billion for a companion fund to its $7.7 billion VC growth fund, according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter. Coatue is not charging existing investors in the...
To entice their investors off the sidelines, venture capital firms are turning to a tactic used...
facebook amazon Before TikTok Turned Into a Rival, Amazon Saw a Potential Partner and Late last year, Amazon executives met with their counterparts at TikTok parent ByteDance to propose a novel idea: creating a new advertising format that would let customers buy items from Amazon ads on TikTok without leaving the app, according to a person with direct knowledge of the discussions. A partnership could have been a breakthrough for...
Late last year, Amazon executives met with their counterparts at TikTok parent ByteDance to...
e-commerce Shein’s Revenue Surged More Than 40%, Likely Surpassing Zara Shein’s revenue surged more than 40% to $24 billion between January and September from a year earlier, people familiar with its finances said, growth that highlights the mounting threat for Amazon as the China-founded retailer looks to expand beyond fast fashion by ramping up sales of other goods like appliances and electronics. Shein,...
Shein’s revenue surged more than 40% to $24 billion between January and September from a...
ai Healthcare Without Health Workers: A Unicorn Pivots to an AI Doctor-in-a-Box If Adrian Aoun has his way, the next time you visit the doctor’s office, you won’t see a single medical professional. In fact, he said, “I don’t even believe a doctor’s office should exist.” Instead, the outspoken founder and CEO of primary care startup Forward wants you to entrust your health to a landmark...
If Adrian Aoun has his way, the next time you visit the doctor’s office, you won’t...
To Revive Snap, Evan Spiegel Promotes Hardcore Work Culture Snap co-founder and CEO Evan Spiegel has lately taken to walking around his company’s Santa Monica, Calif., headquarters in the evenings, stopping at employees’ desks and asking what they’re working on. He has noticed, however, that he always spots the same handful of people working late in the office, he told employees at a...
Snap co-founder and CEO Evan Spiegel has lately taken to walking around his company’s Santa...
e-commerce asia ByteDance Revenue Surges to $29 Billion in Second Quarter, Closing in on Meta and ByteDance is closing the revenue gap with Facebook owner Meta Platforms as it generates more sales from advertising and e-commerce. The Chinese owner of TikTok saw revenue surge more than 40% to $29 billion in the second quarter from a year earlier, according to people with knowledge of the figures. That’s a far higher growth rate than...
ByteDance is closing the revenue gap with Facebook owner Meta Platforms as it generates more...
amazon e-commerce Amazon Reaches Deal to Run Shopping Ads on Snap and Amazon has reached a deal with Snap that will let people buy Amazon products directly from ads on the Snapchat app, an Amazon spokesperson confirmed. The previously unreported arrangement closely resembles an ad partnership announced last week between Amazon and Meta Platforms, which lets people buy products through Amazon ads on Instagram and...
Amazon has reached a deal with Snap that will let people buy Amazon products directly from ads on...
startups venture capital YouTube Co-Founder Hurley’s Stealth AI Startup Raises Money from A-Star Capital, Ron Conway and Eighteen years after co-founding YouTube, Chad Hurley is back with a new startup, EyeTell, which uses artificial intelligence to generate short-form video scripts and content, according to two people familiar with the matter. The five-month-old startup has raised a seed round led by Kevin Hartz’s A-Star Capital with an investment from Ron...
Eighteen years after co-founding YouTube, Chad Hurley is back with a new startup, EyeTell, which...
startups Finance Brex’s Quarterly Revenue Growth Slows to 1%, Following Post-SVB Growth Spurt Almost no startup benefited more from the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank than Brex, which saw a surge in deposits from young companies who use its credit card and cash management products. But that growth spurt has petered out in recent months, internal data reveal, putting more pressure on the company to ramp up its expense software...
Almost no startup benefited more from the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank than Brex, which saw a...
1 2 3 4 5 … Next › Last » Get Started © 2013-2023 The Information. All Rights Reserved.
Save 25% on our exclusive list of 50 startups to watch
