Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Funding Daily: Today’s biggest tech funding news, in one place Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Here’s a list of today’s tech funding stories, updated as the day unfolds. Tip us here if you have a deal to share.
Slack raises $120M from Google & Kleiner Perkins at $1.12B valuation Corporate messaging tool Slack announced today that it has closed a $120 million round led by Google Ventures and Kleiner Perkins. The new round values the company at $1.12 billion, post funding — a massive valuation for an eight-month-old company. San Francisco-based Slack was quick to point this out in its press release: “Having just launched in February, this milestone marks Slack as the fastest growing SaaS company ever.” Read more NantMobile raises $50M for digital advertising platform One of the cool features in Amazon’s Fire phone is Firefly , which can recognize images, movies, or music in the real world and launch related Web content on your phone. The Los Angeles-based startup NantMobile has a technology platform that can put that capability on any mobile device via an app.
Read more Cloud provider Joyent bets the farm on containers, adds $15M Joyent , a provider of public-cloud infrastructure and software companies can use to create clouds in their own data centers, is announcing today that it’s brought in $15 million in new funding. Existing investors El Dorado Ventures, EPIC Ventures, Intel Capital, LGI Ventures, and Orascom TMT Investments participated in the round among others. There were no new investors.
Read more Abacus nabs $3.5M to make expense reporting as easy as snapping and sharing a photo Expense reporting is a huge pain in everyone’s working behind. Just this morning, my colleagues were groaning because of today’s deadline to get theirs in for the month. So it’s at least reassuring to know that a host of companies are working on making it more pleasant. One of these, Abacus , a Y Combinator-backed startup, is reimagining expense reporting as a mobile-first tool, and the company announced today on its blog that it has raised $3.5 million in new funding.
Read more Video platform Tout secures $3.1M Video hosting, distribution, and monetization service Tout today announced it has secured $3.15 million in debt financing in a public company filing. The New York-based company specifically targets newsrooms and the entertainment industry.
Read more: SEC Giveaways site Poshly raises $3M Poshly, a New York and San Francisco-based beauty product giveaway site, today announced $2,997,853 in funding via a public filing with the SEC.
Read more: SEC Site for tracking startup performance raises $750K Today Visible announced a $750,000 raise — $250,000 of which was reported in a public filing with the SEC. The Indianapolis-based company offers tools which help startups track their performance and share that data with investors. ( Editor’s note: this funding blurb was updated at 10:33 a.m. PT with an additional $500K raised ) Read more: SEC This list will be updated with breaking funding news all day. Check back for more.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
