Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare preorder deals, $10 off or $10 bonus Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare goes live next Monday, here's all the preorder deals available.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The 11th installment of the Call of Duty franchise Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare goes live next week, November 4th . All gamers who pre-order will receive the “Day Zero Edition” regardless of gaming platform.
The Day Zero Edition gets you several in-game digital goodies and a 24-hour head start on Monday, November 3rd. If you’re ordering online, you might want to check out some retailer specific bonuses and discounts on top of that.
PC Gamers actually have a discount! Just click on this page , and either login or create an account at GMG to see the $10 price drop on Advanced Warfare.
 The special “VIP” deal has to be purchased from that page for the discount to apply. As of writing, the deal works in most regions, including the UK/EU for £34.99 and 44.99€, respectively.
Xbox One and 360 users, your best bet is the Microsoft Store , where you’ll get a bonus $10 Xbox gift card redeemable on Xbox Live. Better than that, if you’re an Xbox Live Rewards member and your Microsoft store account email matches your Xbox Live account email, you’ll get 15,000 Xbox Live Rewards points ($15 bonus). Not bad.
PS4 and PS3 gamers should go with Best Buy’s $10 in “My Best Buy” Rewards for their preorder offer.
Walmart doesn’t have a monetary bonus but receives an honorable mention for guaranteeing free release day arrival shipping on Nov. 3rd. We’re not sure how much longer this offer will be valid, so be sure to check the free shipping dates before purchasing.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The big takeaway: adding bonuses and discounts to pre-orders proves advantageous for developers and retailers alike. While discounts for pre-order console games are still relatively unheard of, the combo of digital extras and store credits certainly looks compelling if you’re devoted to a particular series. And while this pre-order discount shouldn’t come as much of a shock given the price of PC games has been dropping as of late, it’s still a good sign that there’s some heavy competition between digitally authorized retailers.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
