Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Want to watch developers make games? Twitch has a channel for that Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A developer working on his game live on Twitch.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The Internet makes it possible to watch people play and talk about games, and now Twitch is expanding that to watching people make them as well.
The livestreaming video company introduced its new “Game Development” channel this week. Normally, when you broadcast on Twitch, you select the game you’re playing from the website’s dashboard. Now, studios can select Game Development and livestream video of them building their software. As more companies get into showing their work as a way to promote their products, Twitch is positioning itself as an indispensable tool.
Twitch has grown into one of the biggest destination for gaming-related content on the web. It has more than a million people broadcasting video, and it has more than 60 million monthly viewers. In August, Amazon purchased Twitch for $970 million.
Already, developers at the MIT Gamelab, Epic Games, and several indies are using Twitch to show off their creative process. MIT Gamelab hosted a session on working with the simple development tools. Epic hosts weekly updates to show fans what it is doing with its Unreal Engine 4 software kit and the new free Unreal shooter game that it is making with it.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! At any time, you can click on over to the Game Development channel on Twitch and pick from a long list of developers working on their latest projects.
Twitch told GamesBeat that it implemented the new directory thanks to prompting from its community. The video site recently started hosting regular “town-hall meetings” where broadcasters and viewers could bring up ideas and concerns.
If you’re curious what it’s like to watch a person coding live for an Internet audience, check out the team responsible for the strategy role-playing game Dungeonmans below: GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
