Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages This could be our closest look yet at Apple’s rumored ‘iPad Pro’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Since one version of the iPad has become smaller (the iPad mini) and one version of the iPhone has become larger (the iPhone 6 Plus), it’s become harder to tell them apart. But not for much longer.
Rumor has it that Apple is gearing up to launch the “iPad Pro,” or “iPad Air Plus,” a larger iPad with a 12.2-inch display — at least that’s what Mac Fan , an Apple magazine from Japan, claims. The device is reportedly slated for a release sometime between April and June 2015.
The tablet, which is said to be 12 inches by 8.7 inches, will also have a new A9 processor, dual top and bottom speakers, and will look a lot like Apple’s iPad Air and iPad mini, according to MacRumors.
Above: Screenshot of Mac Fan report, via MacRumors Apple may also be developing an iPad mini 4, which will look much like the newest iPad Air, according to Mac Fan and MacRumors.
 The iPad mini 4 is also rumored to appear between April and June of next year.
This is not the first that we’ve heard of a possible larger iPad — rumors of a 12.9-inch tablet surfaced last year, and a report this past August continued to keep them alive. However, this new Mac Fan report is pegging the display size to be slightly smaller.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
