Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Russia’s Run Capital injects $6 millon in Californian mobile marketing startup AppInTop East-West Digital News Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn AppInTop , a California-based company founded by Russian serial entrepreneur Nikolay Evdokimov, has secured $6 million in a series A round from Moscow-based Run Capital. The capital injection will be used for marketing and business development.
AppInTop develops a mobile marketing platform that helps companies to “eliminate routine in app promotion” and “make life much easier for both indie publishers and large brands.” AppInTop provides its clients with an access to “all ad networks in one interface.” Companies may set up, run and analyze their multichannel campaigns with a range of options and scalability designed for their marketing staff.
Run Capital is the first institutional investor in the company. As the result of the deal the fund has received a minority preference stake and Run Capital managing partner Andrey Romanenko has joined the board.
Currently AppInTop is operating in 30 countries and has partnered with Facebook, Twitter, Mail.ru, Admob and many other.
Run Capital is 1 billion ruble fund (approximately $22 million at the current exchange rate) launched this past spring by executives from Qiwi, a major Russian payment company. In August, the fund’s first investment went to excursion booking service Weatlas.
Several other venture funds with Russian origins or connections are active on the Californian market and in other Western countries. Amont the most important ones are Almaz Capital, Maxfield Capital, Phenomen Ventures and Runa Capital.
This story originally appeared on East-West Digital News.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
