Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Funding Daily: Today’s tech funding stories, in one place Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Here’s a list of today’s biggest funding stories, updated as the day unfolds. Tip us here if you have a deal to share.
Open data startup Socrata brings in $30M to make government data more accessible Socrata , a startup working to make government data more easily accessible to companies and services, has raised $30 million in new funding. Socrata has raised at least $30 million out of possible $35 million it’s seeking to close, according to a filing it submitted today to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The filing lists Jai Das of Sapphire Ventures as a director.
Read more Narrative Science pulls in $10M to analyze corporate data and turn it into text-based reports Narrative Science takes huge piles of numbers and makes summaries in the form of legible sentences and paragraphs. Until recently, it had focused that skill on generating newspaper articles based solely on box scores. But now it’s entered the stuffy realm of enterprise software, having been integrated with complicated IT architectures at financial services companies and government agencies, chief executive Stuart Frankel tells VentureBeat.
Read more Cream Finance raises $6.2M for its data-driven consumer lending in Eastern Europe Cream Finance , a European company that provides short-term consumer loans, has raised $6.2 million (€5 million) in new funding from Flint Capital. Cream Finance is the parent company of CreditOn, LendOn, and CreditOne, consumer credit services that operate in Latvia, Czech Republic, Poland, Georgia, and Slovakia. Cream Finance uses data to quickly evaluate, score, and make short-term loans to its customers. It also uses technology to automate as much of its process as possible to speed up its lending to consumers.
Read more Russia’s Run Capital injects $6 millon in Californian mobile marketing startup AppInTop AppInTop , a Calif.-based company founded by Russian serial entrepreneur Nikolay Evdokimov, has secured $6 million in a series A round from Moscow-based Runa Capital. The capital injection will be used for marketing and business development. AppInTop develops a mobile marketing platform that helps companies to “eliminate routine in app promotion” and “make life much easier for both indie publishers and large brands.” Read more Carousell raises $6M Carousell, a mobile peer-to-peer marketplace focused on the Asian market, has raised $6 million in new funding. Sequoia led the round, with existing investors Rakuten Ventures, Golden Gate Ventures, 500 Startups, and entrepreneur Darius Cheung also participating.
Read more: TechCrunch This list will be updated with breaking funding news all day. Check back for more.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
