Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages How to use Twitter with keyboard shortcuts Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Many Twitter users access the service on their mobile devices and frankly don’t like the Twitter website, but sometimes it’s all you’ve got. We’ve found that the best way to make navigating and tweeting easier is to learn a few keyboard shortcuts.
Over the years, Twitter has changed which keystrokes do what, as well as quietly added new ones. The latest list of keyboard shortcuts below (we’ll make a point to keep them updated) should work in all major browsers.
Actions The following keyboard shortcuts are helpful for actually using Twitter’s various functions: N to compose a new tweet Ctrl + Enter to send a tweet Escape to exit the compose window, or any other popup (not specific to Twitter, but very handy) F to favorite a tweet R to reply to a tweet T to retweet a tweet M to send a direct message U to mute a user B to block a user Enter to open tweet details L to close all open tweets Navigation The following keyboard shortcuts will help you move around Twitter: J to move to the next tweet K to move to the previous tweet Space to move down a page Shift + Space to move up a page.
 to bring up the next set of tweets and take you to the top of the page / to go to the Search box These keyboard are more specific and require hitting two buttons in succession: G then H for Home G then N for Notifications G then A for Activity G then R for Mentions G then D for Discover G then P for Profile G then F for Favorites G then L for Lists G then M for Messages G then S for Settings G then U for any user’s timeline (pictured above; brings up the “Go to a person’s profile” box where you can type in a person’s name or Twitter handle and hit Enter) The last group of keyboard shortcuts are easy to remember if you think of them as G for go and the next letter for wherever you want to navigate to (the first one is G o H ome).
At any point, if you want to reference the keyboard shortcuts on Twitter, hit Shift + ? to bring up this menu: It doesn’t include every simple keyboard shortcuts for Twitter, but almost all of them are there. If we’re missing a keyboard shortcut from our list, please let us know.
See also : How to use Facebook with keyboard shortcuts VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
