Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter revives Politwoops for saving politicians’ deleted tweets Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey onstage at the Flight developer conference on October 21, 2015 at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco, Calif.
Twitter officially announced the return of Politwoops on Thursday.
After a four-month absence, Twitter reached an agreement with political watchdog groups the Sunlight Foundation and the Open State Foundation to revive the site, which logs deleted tweets from politicians. Although some of the saved tweets were deleted for simple typos or minor errors, others are more embarrassing, and the site aims to hold politicians accountable for past statements and policy positions.
Arjan El Fassed, director of the Open State Foundation, said “This agreement is great news for those who believe that the world needs more transparency. Our next step is now to continue and expand our work to enable the public to hold public officials accountable for their public statements.” Twitter shuttered Politwoops earlier this year when it revoked the Sunlight Foundation’s access to its developer API. At the time, a statement from Twitter argued that politicians are no different from any other user, and that people have the right to delete content from the network.
“Imagine how nerve-racking — terrifying, even — tweeting would be if it was immutable and irrevocable?” the statement read. “No one user is more deserving of that ability than another. Indeed, deleting a tweet is an expression of the user’s voice.” Back in October, Twitter founder and newly reinstated CEO Jack Dorsey hinted that he would be reconsidering the decision.
“We have a responsibility to continue to empower organizations that bring more transparency to public dialogue, such as Politwoops,” he said. “We need to make sure we are serving all these organizations and developers in the best way, because that is what will make Twitter great.” The Politwoops website is still inactive, and Twitter’s announcement did not include a specific date for the relaunch.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
