Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Oculus Touch delayed to second half of 2016 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Oculus Touch isn't coming out until Q2 2016.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Oculus VR announced today that its Oculus Touch hand controls for virtual reality will be delayed until the second half of 2016.
In a blog post, the company said it needs more time to perfect its Touch controls, which allow you to use your hands in a virtual-reality simulation. That means the Oculus Rift headset will ship with an Xbox One controller — a traditional video game input device — when it debuts in the first quarter. Preorders for the Oculus Rift will start “very soon,” according to Oculus VR, which Facebook bought for $2 billion in March 2014.
The delay is significant because lots of developers are dependent on Oculus in the VR ecosystem. Tech adviser Digi-Capital estimates that VR will be a $30 billion business by 2020, but that is dependent on strong platform launches by companies such as Oculus.
“On Touch hardware, we’ve made significant advances in ergonomics, and we’re implementing many changes that make Touch even more comfortable, reliable, and natural,” the blog post said. “We’re also implementing changes that improve hand-pose recognition.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Oculus VR is also setting up a larger pre-production run so that it can get more prototypes to developers. Oculus said there will be a lot of “groundbreaking new content launching alongside Touch.” Early previews will be shown at the Oculus Connect 2 in September, and the Oculus team said the Touch will be worth the wait.
That means Oculus VR will likely have less cool stuff to show than previously expected at the 2016 International CES, next week’s big tech trade show in Las Vegas.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
