Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter for Mac finally gets a redesign Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Twitter's latest Mac redesign with optional dark theme, December 30 2015 Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
At long last, Twitter has updated its Mac app with a new look.
If the design doesn’t feel all that fresh to you, there’s a good reason for that. Twitter announced this redesign two months ago during its developer conference. The unveiling was a bit frustrating, as the company declined to announce a release date for the app. Well, it’s arrived.
This release won’t solve Twitter’s chronic growth problem , but Mac owners who haven’t already committed to Twitter’s more sophisticated TweetDeck app might enjoy the change.
Above: The redesigned Home view Above: The optional dark theme Along with the new look, Twitter said the app now supports inline videos, GIFs, group DMs, muting, a secondary dark theme, and tweet quoting. Mac users can download it here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
