Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Exclusive New Apple and IBM enterprise app delivers a lot of utility Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Apple and IBM are planning on partnering on a dozen new enterprise apps this quarter, and 100 this year. The first of them, aimed at utility workers, will be announced next week.
VentureBeat has learned that the app, which the two huge corporations developed for a major U.S. utility company, was built for crew workers, like those that service electricity lines. It’s designed to give those workers a wide range of data, such as maps and weather notifications.
The app is the result of the partnership between Apple and IBM , announced last summer, under which the two technology giants are teaming up on a wide range of purpose-built applications, together called MobileFirst for iOS , meant for their enterprise customers. The first set of those apps were unveiled in December, with tools for the airline, banking, insurance, telecommunications, and other industries.
Above: One of the apps developed by Apple and IBM in December, aimed at the airline industry.
The utility company app, built for the iPhone 6 Plus, offers field workers a suite of features that could help them work more efficiently and safely. These features include: VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! TouchID or voice sign-in and a single-screen look at the schedule for the day.
An Apple map view of job locations.
Analytics, crunched by IBM and designed to provide the workers with historical problems at and previous visits to job sites.
Real-time automatic weather alerts.
The capability to quickly respond to customer questions about service updates or estimated time of restoration.
Data-entry automation that eliminates repetitive tasks.
One-tap SOS calls in case of accidents or emergencies.
The Apple-IBM partnership was a significant deal for both companies, giving Big Blue access to a vast network of customers using iOS devices and Apple a new partner offering its clients complex enterprise-grade products.
Last summer, the companies gave the first hint of the number of apps they’d work on together, saying at the time they would develop more than 100 different tools. IBM said it would develop apps and cloud services for iPhones and iPads, as well as give Apple a sales pipeline to enterprise customers, and Apple will support the devices. It’s also thought that IBM’s Watson supercomputer system could help bolster the power of Apple’s Siri voice-based personal assistant system.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
