Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Check out Dying Light’s Half-Life, Mario Bros., and Left 4 Dead Easter eggs Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Someone like baked goods and Valve games.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Earlier this week, a new open-world zombie game hit the market, and developer Techland made sure to include homages to some of gaming’s biggest hits ever.
Dying Light puts you in a country overrun by the undead — but thanks to your character’s parkour skills (aka how he can run and jump all over the place), you have the capability dash right over the shambling biters. It offers plenty of things to do and exploring the world is fun, but that didn’t stop Techland from including a little bit extra. Gamers have already uncovered a few Easter eggs, and we’re gonna share them with you now.
Let’s get to it.
Super Mario Bros.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! As you can see in the video, you can find this Easter egg by heading to the southwest part of the town map. You’ll have to wait until you unlock the town map, which takes some time. Regardless, you get to play through level 1-1 of Super Mario Bros. for the Nintendo Entertainment System in Dying Light. That’s pretty neat.
Left 4 Dead Above: A reference to Valve’s zombie game.
One of the bakeries in Dying Light’s Harram must really like puns and video games. This is a clear reference to publisher Valve’s four-player cooperative Left 4 Dead games. You even get four loaves on the sign to indicate the four-player mode.
Half-Life Above: Another Reddit user found this.
This is likely an intentional reference to another Valve game. The gas pipe, which has a literal valve, and is similar to the logo you see at the start of the publisher’s games. Also, the circular-saw blade was common in Half-Life 2 as a projectile players used with the gravity gun.
Also, the blood splatter probably spells out the release date for Half-life 3 or something. Just keep looking. I’m sure it’s there somewhere.
Bonus drop kick This isn’t an Easter egg, but it still rules.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
