Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Octodad: Dadliest Catch developer reflects on $5M in sales and 460K copies sold Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Octodad: Dadliest Catch made nearly $5 million.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
A game about a dad who is definitely not an octopus debuted 12 months ago, and developer Young Horses is looking back on the game’s accomplishments.
Octodad: Dadliest Catch, which puts players in the role of the titular aquatic invertebrate who must convince those around him that he is human, generated nearly $5 million in gross revenue. That was on 459,735 copies sold on PlayStation 4 and PC as well as Mac and Linux. The studio shared an infographic that breaks down the split between the various platforms, and it reveals that the bulk of the sales and money came from PC (likely Valve’s digital-distribution store Steam) — although PS4 customers paid more per copy than their PC counterparts. Octodad was one of many independently developed games that is finding success on the newer consoles as well as on computers. While they are not making as much as many mobile games, releases like Octodad are generating enough to support small teams. Gaming is a multi-billion dollar business, but it’s difficult to tell what portion of that is made up of indie games.
Young Horses also shared some figures about Octodad’s development. It took 2 years and 7 months to complete production of Dadliest Catch. In that time, the core team of 9 worked 28,208 hours. The team started out with $24,320 from a Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign, and then the studio owed $530,000 in backpay wages after it started earning money.
Oh, and the team made four trips to the emergency room during the development of Octodad: Dadliest Catch.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Check out the full infographic below for more about Octodad, and check out our review of this unique and moving game to see why it’s worth playing.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
