Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Starship lets kids create their own champions in Playworld Superheroes Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Starship's Playworld Superheroes Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
English startup Starship has launched its Playworld Superheroes app that encourages kids to create their own game worlds.
Targeted at kids ages 5 and up, it is the first in a series of mobile adventures from Liverpool-based Starship, which was started by Martin Kenwright, the founder of Evolution Studios and creator of the acclaimed Motorstorm console racing game series.
In the game, kids can create their own crafts using a tablet’s touchscreen. They can use it to cut out a superhero mask and then assemble a full uniform. Then they can fly around in the world in an Iron Man-style power armor. You can pretty much craft anything. To enable that, Kenright’s team built an awesome 3D game engine that can generate animations on a tablet at 60 frames per second, or as fast as the speediest console games. They started with the Unity 3D game engine but modified it with a lot of custom code. Once you’ve created the superhero, you can take on the role and save the world from dastardly aliens.
The Playworld name is the brand for a series of action-adventure games fused together by themes of crafting and creativity. Eco-friendly messages are cloaked in the crafting.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “Playworld is like the secret doorway into a child’s imagination,” said Kenwright in a statement. “A child has the ability to transform the most mundane item into fantastical objects of great importance, and we really tried to mimic the way that children play with Playworld. Where an adult might only see a cardboard box, a child sees endless possibility, anything from a rocket to a superhero suit. In Playworld, imagination is the greatest superpower, you truly get to become the hero of your own creations.” Starship believes that kids are an overlooked market on smart devices. The app costs £3, €4, and $4. It has no in-app purchases, as that is part of Starship’s plan to earn the trust of parents. The app runs on the iPhone 5S, 6, 6 Plus, iPad Mini 2, iPad Mini 3, iPad Air, and iPad Air 2.
Kenwright founded Starship in 2013. It has a team of 20 people who have collectively worked on 69 games. Other apps in the making include a cooking title and a memory game.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
