Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Romney could have announced 2016 on any outlet on Earth. He chose Medium Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Medium just had a moment. Former Republican nominee Mitt Romney just announced he would not be running for president in 2016 on the new writing platform of Twitter cofounder Ev Williams. With wild speculation consuming the press for days, Romney could have announced this decision on any news network or tech platform on the planet.
Yet, to express a historically significant decision in the face of global attention, Romney evidently felt that the not-yet-mainstream writing platform was the best way to convey an idea. For Williams’ growing startup, it’s a huge win. Indeed, on Facebook, the old announcement standby, Romney just wrote a sentence and linked to his Medium post.
Political leaders have increasingly come to see Medium as a place to convey ideas. President Barack Obama has written an op-ed there and, most recently, posted the script to his State of the Union before the speech.
But Obama didn’t announce anything novel, and lots of outlets had access to the State of the Union script. For a long time, Medium has just been one more place to broadcast a message.
As of late, however, it’s become a place for people with large audiences to pen heartfelt ideas. After YouTube celebrity Hank Green endured vicious criticism for his interview of President Obama, he took to Medium to defend his questions. His well-followed YouTube channel, evidently, was not the best way to convey his argument to a mass audience.
So, why Medium? Well, Mitt isn’t returning my calls, but as someone who’s been trying it out since its inception, I can understand the appeal. It’s super simple; just a few tools for basic font changes and Medium’s responsive design is guaranteed to work on almost any device and browser. No complicated setup.
The entire user interface is meant to get users writing as quickly and seamlessly as possible. For a guy like Mitt Romney, who probably isn’t a gadget junkie, it’s nice to focus on nothing but the words.
“It’s true: @Medium has the best web-based editor I’ve ever seen. And I’ve seen them all,” tweeted noted technologist Anil Dash back in 2012.
Williams once told me he has ambitious plans for Medium.
 He wants it to be the place where everyone can tell their one big idea. A potential presidential candidate agrees with this vision, and that’s a very good sign.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
