Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages The Pirate Bay is back online after almost two months Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The Pirate Bay, widely known as the most popular file-sharing website on the planet, is back online after the longest outage it has ever experienced. Anyone visiting thepiratebay.se domain today will be welcomed with a functioning site, as if nothing had ever happened almost two months ago.
On December 9, police in Stockholm raided a data center, seizing servers and other computer equipment. The Pirate Bay was one of many peer-to-peer and torrent-related websites and services that went down that day. The raid was in response to a complaint from Swedish anti-piracy group Rights Alliance.
On December 15, The Pirate Bay released its first and only official statement — a member said the team hadn’t decided if it would return. On December 22, the official domain suddenly came back online, albeit only as a single page. It went through various iterations, dropping hints left, right, and center. Now, it features the familiar search page, with a phoenix logo in place of the traditional pirate ship: The return was somewhat expected, as the domain eventually added a countdown clock that pointed to February 1.
 Today’s rebirth means the site is back almost 24 hours earlier than originally planned.
The Pirate Bay is serving torrents once again, and the site is working almost exactly as it did before the outage. In fact, it appears the database that was saved includes almost everything — the latest entries are from December 9.
Yet not all of this is “good news,” so to speak. Rumor has it that some staff are not supporting this relaunch because it was supposed to be a “trimmed down version” that doesn’t require former admins and moderators.
It’s not clear whether that is true. We’ll know soon enough, however, as this staff supposedly plans to launch their own version, at a different domain, if they don’t have access to what is available at thepiratebay.se.
Because The Pirate Bay was down for so long, many copycat sites have appeared , some more popular than others. If former staff launch their own version of The Pirate Bay, there could be even more overlap. Of course, that may end up being good news for users looking to download content.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
