Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google spins out Project Tango from its Advanced Technology and Projects group Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
At the moment, it’s not quite clear what’s happening to Project Tango , Google’s ambitious plan to put 3D mapping technology inside your smartphone.
Today Google’s Advanced Technology and Projects group (ATAP) announced that, “after two fast-paced years in ATAP, and many technical successes, the Tango team is transitioning from ATAP to a new home within Google.” This move reminds us of another recent spin-out: Glass, which “graduated” from the Google[x] team but then was later acknowledged as a disappointment by execs.
But according to Google, that’s not the case for Tango. We asked if the project will be scrapped, and a spokesperson told us “no, quite the opposite” [emphasis ours]: In 2 short years, Tango has achieved many technical successes and Google is committed to continuing to develop the technology.
 As we’ve said before, one of the strategic pillars of ATAP is temporary project teams and durations. It creates a sense of urgency. Tango’s time in ATAP has just reached the two-year mark, and we’re proud of this successful transition.
All I can say is that Google is committed to continuing to invest and develop Tango technology and applications for users.
There are many exciting potential applications for Project Tango, particularly within mobile, but we don’t have any specifics to share right now.
So, the fate of Tango remains unclear for now, but apparently Google has a lot planned for the project.
Meanwhile, we’ll have to settle for the recently released details on Project Ara , Google’s other ambitious smartphone project.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
