Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Pinterest shows off the brains behind its Guided Search feature Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Pinterest's Guided Search in the wild.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Pinterest introduced its Guided Search feature — a little bar showing search categories that’s perched under the search box — last year with the goal of helping its users discover content. It’s helped Pinterest get people to use the site more, and now the company is talking about what goes on under the covers of the feature.
It turns out that Guided Search is highly customized, based on geography, gender, engagement with the guides, and other parameters, as Kevin Ma, a software engineer on Pinterest’s Discovery team, explained in a blog post today. And Pinterest places popular guides prominently for a few days before dropping them down to lower ranks, making the feature reflective of the trends of the day.
All of this has done good things for Pinterest.
“Since its launch, Guided Search has become an important driver of Pinterest search traffic and Pinner engagements,” Ma wrote. “The number of daily searches on Pinterest also has greatly increased, with a 25 percent uptick in searches per-person.” Guided Search is one part of Pinterest that takes into consideration great sums of data on usage and other metrics. The basic search box is also data-powered, as Pinterest detailed earlier this month.
Meanwhile, companies like Facebook, Microsoft, and, of course, Google, use data to make smarter applications, search and otherwise.
Pinterest has been focusing lately on internationalization, so it’s no surprise to read about customization for different countries. Indeed, one of the most interesting parts of the blog post is Ma’s explanation of how Pinterest ranks search guides differently in different parts of the world: We started ranking guides by localization last December, and have since seen a 5%-10% increase in guide clicks in many treatment countries, which shows us the search guides are more relevant and useful to users in across the globe. As part of localization efforts, we also calculate guide location scores based on how much interest Pinners of various countries show to each guide. Figure 6 shows guides ranked differently to users in the U.S. and U.K. For example, Pinners in the U.K. have more interests in “London Street Styles” than “Parisian Street Styles.” Read today’s blog post to learn who engages most with Guided Search and on what days of the week — and how Pinterest creates and then ranks its search guides.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
