Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Seaport Capital Portfolio Company FTJ FundChoice Completes Successful Recapitalization Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn NEW YORK–(BUSINESS WIRE)–February 27, 2015–Seaport Capital Partners (“Seaport”) announced today that FTJ FundChoice, LLC (the “Company”), a Seaport portfolio company, has completed a successful recapitalization. Madison Capital Funding led the recapitalization, which included a new term loan and a revolving credit facility. The proceeds of the recapitalization were used to refinance outstanding debt, support the Company’s continued growth, and fund a cash distribution to equity holders.
FTJ FundChoice provides technology-enabled asset management, electronic trading and back office administrative services to investment advisors. The Company has grown considerably in recent years as it continues to add assets under administration and investment advisors to its platform. The Company has $4.6 billion in assets under administration as of February 2015.
“FTJ FundChoice has experienced rapid growth since Seaport’s investment in 2012,” said Dean Cook, President of FTJ FundChoice. “The Company’s emphasis on unparalleled service and customer satisfaction has allowed us to establish our position as a leading turnkey asset management program (TAMP).” “We are pleased to be working with Madison Capital Funding,” said Bob Tamashunas, Partner of Seaport Capital. “We believe that they will be a strong partner for FTJ FundChoice as management pursues the numerous strategic opportunities that they see for the continued growth of the business.” ABOUT FTJ FUNDCHOICE Founded in 2001, FTJ FundChoice, LLC, a SEC Registered Investment Advisor, provides advisors access to independent asset allocation strategies and model trading functionality. In addition, FTJ FundChoice assists advisors in simplifying their business by absorbing back office tasks, such as trade reconciliation, account administration, fee billing and performance reporting, allowing the advisor to spend more time on revenue generating activities. For additional information, visit www.ftjfundchoice.com.
ABOUT SEAPORT CAPITAL Founded in 1997, Seaport Capital provides capital to middle market companies in the communications, media, and business services sectors. Seaport works with talented management teams to create valuable companies that are leaders in their market segments. Seaport’s extensive investing experience enables it to develop successful strategies; its relationships and resources help achieve them. The firm seeks to invest $5 to $25 million of equity capital in each portfolio company. For additional information, visit www.seaportcapital.com.
PB&J Micah Paldino, 513-621-7676 micah@makepbj.com VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
