Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Study: Elementary school teachers unconsciously discourage girls from math and science Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Silicon Valley is a male-dominated industry , and big tech companies have spent lots of money trying to make it a more equitable place.
New research published this week by the National Bureau of Economic Research finds that the unconscious biases of teachers can cut off talented women in grade school, even before they have an opportunity to join the tech industry.
Israeli sixth-grade students were divided into groups where teachers knew the names and genders of some students and not others. Girls tended to outscore the boys when graded anonymously, which benefited their academic performance all the way through high school.
“It isn’t an issue of discrimination but of unconscious discouragement,” explained researcher Edith Sand, an economist at the Bank of Israel. “This discouragement, however, has implications. The track to computer science and engineering fields, which report some of the highest salaries, tapers off in elementary school.” The research dovetails with the attempts by Google to combat gender discrimination through training in unconscious bias. Helping their employees become more conscious of these prejudices could make the search giant a more equal place for men and women.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
