Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Let’s celebrate Leonard Nimoy’s contributions to video games Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn One of Nimoy's best gaming roles was as Master Xehanort in Kingdom Hearts.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
A man famous for portraying a character without emotions is causing many to feel sadness today.
Leonard Nimoy died today at the age of 83 from end-stage chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. You can read his New York Times obituary here.
 He was famous for his role as Spock in Star Trek television shows and movies, but he also left an imprint in the world of gaming.
Of course, many times he portrayed the Vulcan he made famous in Star Trek games like Star Trek: 25th Anniversary and Star Trek: Judgement Rites. He also provided in-character narration for the massively multiplayer online game Star Trek Online.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! But Nimoy had plenty of non-Spock roles in some high-profile games. He served as the narrator in the bizarre Dreamcast game Seaman, which had players raise and talk to fish creatures with human heads. He also had narrator duties for Civilization IV, a perfect fit for his deep, authoritative voice.
One of his most interesting video game roles was as Master Xehanort in the Kingdom series, specifically PSP’s Birth by Sleep and the 3DS’s Dream Drop Distance. While we usually associate Nimoy with heroic characters, in Kingdom Hearts he voiced the villain. In fact, his character was set up as the main bad in the upcoming Kingdom Hearts III. Sadly, unless the work for the upcoming sequel has already been recorded, Square Enix will now have to replace Nimoy in the role.
Yet all of these performances will live on. Star Trek Online is still active, and Birth by Sleep recently had a rerelease with upgraded visuals on the PlayStation 3. Nimoy’s last tweet said that perfect moments can not be preserved but in memory.
A life is like a garden. Perfect moments can be had, but not preserved, except in memory. LLAP — Leonard Nimoy (@TheRealNimoy) February 23, 2015 If nothing else, these game roles give us memories we can relive whenever we want.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
