Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Ubisoft’s planning for 10 or 20 more years of Assassin’s Creed Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Assassin's Creed: Unity from Ubisoft.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
I’m not that great at math, but I’m thinking we’ll be on Assassin’s Creed XIV come 2035. And that’s without considering the 14 unnumbered games in the back catalog.
French game studio Ubisoft is making plans to keep its hit action-adventure franchise alive for another 10 or 20 years. It’s already been eight years since the first instalment hit PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and PC, but there’s way more to come, according to Assassin’s Creed IV: Black Flag lead writer Darby McDevitt. Speaking on a Twitch livestream , McDevitt revealed that he’s been writing hundreds of years worth of back story for the franchise, reports Eurogamer.
Coming up with new intellectual property in the triple-A gaming market is expensive and risky, so keeping Assassin’s Creed alive for as long as possible is a smart move by Ubisoft, so long as gamers want to keep playing it.
“We’ve created 500, 600, 700 years worth of history that we hope to start teasing out for the next 10, 20 years or however long we’re around,” said McDevitt.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! He explained how the writing team has created an entire lore based on the First Civilization, the mysterious forerunners of humanity in the Assassin’s Creed games, also known as “Those Who Came Before.” “I particularly love the lore,” said McDevitt. “I’ve been working the past two years with all the other writers on getting a great document together on the First Civilization. As I see it, there were always two ways to go about this. You could always make [the First Civilization] very mysterious — to never really go into what they were. But at a certain point in the games you got to the point where you knew they were real. So why not go the other direction and treat them as real history? “Me and the other writers have been — as a side-project to really make sure all future projects have this cool timeline to go from — creating this huge First Civ history.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
