Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages The two women behind the viral dress want to turn it into something positive for girls Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Sarah Weichel (top) and Caitlin McNeill Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Sarah Weichel and Caitlin McNeill, the two women behind the dress photo that rocked the Internet on Thursday, have a plan to turn their fifteen seconds of viral fame into a win for young girls.
Weichel reached out to Business Insider late Friday and announced the pair have teamed up to sell “Team #BlackandBlue” and “Team #WhiteandGold” t-shirts, with the proceeds benefiting the Princess Project , an organization that provides free prom dresses to high school girls who can’t afford them.
The shirts commemorate the fact that the dress in the infamous photo appeared to some people to be white and gold, while others saw it as blue and black.
McNeill put the picture on a Tumblr fan page she runs for Weichel, who works with YouTube stars. The picture was originally taken by the mother of one of McNeill’s friends. McNeill told Business Insider the mother took a photo of the dress because she wore it to her daughter’s wedding. When McNeill saw her friends debating the photo on Facebook, she decided to share it on Tumblr and Internet history was made.
The t-shirts are selling for $14.99 on Represent.com and allow the wearer to declare which colors they saw. As of this writing, the site says over 600 t-shirts have been sold and almost twice as many people have chosen “Team #WhiteandGold.” Check out the shirts below: This story originally appeared on Business Insider.
 Copyright 2015 VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
