Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Exclusive Group-chatting app Blupe, an offspring of China’s Momo, launches today in the U.S.
Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A group screen in Blupe Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Blupe may sound like a big bubble surfacing, but in this context it’s the name of a new, group-oriented social app that launches today.
It’s a wholly-owned offspring of Momo , a social app used by more than 180 million Chinese to discover and chat with people nearby. Momo founding team member and now Blupe CEO/founder Sichuan Zhang has relocated to San Francisco from Beijing, assembling a team to build and launch the app.
A new social app needs a niche, and Blupe’s is the interest group. You can only chat with other group members, and anyone can create a group. A group can have between two and 100 users, who must participate within 60 miles of each other. A group founder is in control, able to admit new members or boot out unruly ones.
“I recently moved into a new apartment” in the San Francisco area, Zhang told me. Because it’s a new building, she said, there’s still construction going on. To help share information about construction-related issues, she created an apartment group on Blupe, which scored two members after two days.
“We can chat about what’s going on here,” Zhang said. “It’s very convenient.” As it moves from its beta phase with several thousand users and hundreds of groups, the free app is hunkered down for the time being, focusing on user growth.
“There are many [monetization] opportunities for location-based apps,” Zhang pointed out. Possibilities could include location-specific offers or the kinds of premium memberships Momo is offering.
VentureBeat is studying social media marketing.
Answer our survey now and we’ll share the results with you.
In the increasingly crowded social app space, Zhang said Blupe had two main competitors, Meetup and Nextdoor.
She said that “Meetup is not mobile-first, because it has a long history ” and began on the desktop Web.
The user experience in the mobile app is “not that good,” it’s more formal than the casual Blupe, and it’s event-oriented, Zhang said.
Nextdoor is “more like a closed, neighborhood watch ,” she noted, oriented toward “broken cars down the street or [a neighbor asking] for someone to watch her dog for a couple of days.” “It’s not really social,” she said. She added that Blupe can do neighborhood events and, at some point, will add an events feature.
Blupe is being launched in the U.S.
first on iOS.
 There are no plans yet to move it to its older sibling’s native country.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
