Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Hosting company GoDaddy sets stock price at $20 per share in IPO Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Auto racer Danica Patrick is sponsored by GoDaddy.
GoDaddy, a company that has carved out a large position for itself in the domain registration and web hosting markets, today priced shares of its stock at $20 in its initial public offering, ahead of the expected debut of company stock on the New York Stock Exchange later this week.
Reuters and SeekingAlpha initially reported on the pricing news, alongside tweets from CNBC and Investor’s Business Daily writer Brian Deagon.
 Renaissance Capital confirmed the figures.
The reports said the company sold 22 million of its shares, but several hours later GoDaddy officially announced in a statement that it had sold 23 million. That means GoDaddy has raised $460 million in the IPO before the shares become publicly traded.
Reuters pegged the company’s valuation at $4.5 billion.
The $20 figure exceeds the $17-$19 price range that GoDaddy set for its stock shares earlier this month.
The company’s S-1 filing originally became public in June 2014.
GoDaddy started in 1997. Its headquarters are in Scottsdale, Ariz. The company had 4,908 employees as of Dec. 31, and nearly 70 percent of them were on GoDaddy’s Customer Care team, according to a recently updated S-1 filing.
Private-equity groups KKR, Silver Lake, and TCV bought a controlling interest in GoDaddy for a reported $2.25 billion in 2011.
GoDaddy owns and operates a data center in Phoenix; it also keeps infrastructure in colocation facilities in Arizona, California, Illinois, Virginia, Singapore and the Netherlands, according to the updated filing.
Earlier this year, GoDaddy acquired Node.js startup Nodejitsu.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
