Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Note-taking app Evernote experiences outage, comes back 1 hour later (updated) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The popular Evernote desktop and mobile app today experienced a period of downtime, the company disclosed today.
The outage lasted a bit more than an hour. The company was looking into the matter as of 1:41 p.m. Pacific, when the company sent out of a tweet: We are currently investigating reported problems that are impacting certain aspects of the service. Will BRB with an update.
— evernote (@evernote) March 31, 2015 By 2:46 p.m., though, Evernote was back to normal, according to a status update.
 There was no immediate explanation for the downtime.
Evernote, based in Redwood, Calif., started in 2007 and has been on IPO watch for some time now. Last year Evernote said it had more than 100 million users.
Outages of the app are unusual — so much that the company sent out a follow-up tweet less than 45 minutes after the initial alert of the outage: We're actively working on a fix to bring Evernote back up. We know how much you rely on Evernote and Thank you for your patience! — evernote (@evernote) March 31, 2015 Last year the app went down after a distributed-denial-of-service (DDoS) attack.
Updated at 4:19 p.m. Pacific to reflect that Evernote’s app began working again an hour after it went down.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
