Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter cozies up to media outlets with the launch of Curator Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Twitter today announced the launch of Curator , a tool that will enable media outlets to more easily sift through the social feed’s content in order to highlight collections of tweets and stories.
Some have compared the new feature to Storify, which allows media outlets to pull together curated feeds of social media posts across platforms. Curator is meant to make it easier to search for and filter exactly what you’re looking for and allow real-time vines and tweets to be easily embedded into a variety of formats including television, websites, and mobile apps. The tool caters to the media industry and can be used to point out trends and general consensus on an issue as it’s happening. The real-time component of the feature differentiates it from other analysis tools, which need a longer lead time to generate reports.
For now the feature is only available to media outlets.
Ultimately this tool will help Twitter get its content shared in more places, giving its brand more reach. Curator also represents a potential opportunity to show investors that Twitter’s audience isn’t limited to those with Twitter accounts.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
