Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Spruce raises $15M more for telemedicine platform, supports new dermatology conditions Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Spruce has hit a growth spurt. The San Francisco company has expanded its dermatology telemedicine service to cover far more skin conditions, and has taken another large chunk of venture capital to fuel its national expansion.
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers led the new $15 million funding round, with participation from Baseline Ventures, Cowboy Ventures, and Google Ventures. These same players, with the exception of Google Ventures — contributed to a $2 million seed round for Spruce during 2014.
“Patients and dermatologists have loved the experience Spruce provides for acne treatment, and we are excited to now enable high-quality care for a wide range of dermatological concerns,” said Ray Bradford, CEO of Spruce. “There is an average 29 day wait time to see a dermatologist in America, and it can be time-intensive, inconvenient, and expensive to seek treatment.” Spruce originally focused on patients needing acne treatments, but now offers virtual dermatologist visits for lines and wrinkles, skin discoloration, eczema, psoriasis, male hair loss, rashes, bug bites and stings, and other conditions.
Here’s how the Spruce app works. First, the user shares photos and medical information with a board-certified dermatologist, and within 24 hours a dermatologist reviews the information and sends a personalized treatment plan back to the user’s phone. A prescription is sent to the user’s pharmacy if needed. Importantly, the user can always refer to the app for exact aftercare instructions, Bradford told VentureBeat.
Right now Spruce’s service is available to people in four states — California, New York, Florida, Pennsylvania.
Doctor visits cost $40 per visit using the Spruce app. Spruce supports Apple Pay and accepts major debit/credit cards as well as flexible spending account cards.
The company was founded by Bradford in 2013.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
