Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages DeNA reinforces its brand success with Marvel Mighty Heroes for mobile Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Marvel Mighty Heroes lets four heroes team up to take on Marvel villains.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
“Marvel Madness” on mobile continues with a new co-op brawler.
Developer DeNA launched its fighting game Marvel Mighty Heroes on iOS and Android mobile devices today. This free-to-play title is the latest from DeNA, which has found success working on mobile games for top franchises, including Star Wars and Transformers. The company has previously released another Marvel franchise card game Marvel: War of Heroes , which continues to do well some three years after its initial release, currently ranking as a top five card game in four countries, according to App Annie.
 This release will help DeNA further strengthen its position as a top mobile development house — as if partnering with Nintendo to make its first ever mobile games wasn’t enough.
Marvel has been huge for mobile game makers.
Marvel Puzzle Quest has done very well for Demiurge and D3, and Disney Interactive’s Marvel Avengers Alliance is a top 10-grossing role-playing game in 10 countries, according to App Annie.
 The franchise is a major force in the mobile games — a market that could hit $30 billion this year.
Real-time, cooperative gameplay is the draw for Marvel Mighty Heroes, which features a story by Fred Van Lente, creator of comics X-Men Noir, The Amazing Spider-Man, and The Incredible Hercules. The game permits up to four players teaming up as one of many available Marvel heroes to take on villains from the Marvel Universe, a first on mobile devices.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
