Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Hearthstone’s Arena is down as Blizzard investigates ‘connectivity issues’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Trying to collect all of the best cards is one of the primary drivers of spending in games like Hearthstone.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Updated at 2:45 p.m.: Arena is back up and running.
Hearthstone is having a problem today.
Publisher Blizzard has confirmed that it is aware of problems that some players are running into when trying to play Arena games in the collectible-card battler Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft. It says it’s looking into the problems, and this led the company to bring the Arena offline for everyone. This comes just days before Blizzard plans to launch the latest add-on for the game, Blackrock Mountain.
We have temporarily disabled the Arena as we look into connectivity issues. We are working to re-enable Arena as soon as possible.
— Hearthstone (@PlayHearthstone) March 31, 2015 Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! We’ve asked the publisher for a comment further explaining the situation.
Earlier today, Blizzard released the latest patch for Hearthstone. This update included some fixes, and it also prepares the game for the Blackrock Mountain content.
This outage is only affecting the Arena, which is the mode that enables players to piece together a temporary deck in an attempt to take on up to 12 different human opponents before losing three times. The longer you go, the bigger the reward you get. It is an especially popular style of play for people who stream the game on video sites like Twitch.
Solo play and online ranked and casual games are all still working.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
