Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Exclusive Acrolinx’s new Content Marketing Platform tailors a writer’s work for your audience Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
If we writers thought we’re somehow immune to computer analysis, it’s time to wake up and smell the metaphorical coffee.
The latest case-in-point: the launch today by language optimization platform Acrolinx of its new Content Marketing Platform.
It builds on the company’s advanced linguistic analytics engine, an on-premise solution that is used by companies like Adobe and Boeing to hone the language of their in-house content creations.
The new cloud-based platform, CEO Kumar Vora told me, adds collaborative authoring, content marketing distribution, and the ability to automatically make real-time suggestions in a sidebar. These suggestions seek to hone the wording, style, terms used, readability, tone, and other factors to a message’s purpose and audience. The messages might be white papers, website and landing pages, emails, or other marketing.
In an example provided by Acrolinx, a “solution brief” from a systems integrator targeting an IT person might begin: Your business is migrating to unified communications (UC). You are adding video collaboration to fully engage your customers, reduce travel and speed time-to-market.
The platform then recommends more tech jargon like “multi-vendor interoperability” at a later point in the first paragraph.
But when targeting a marketing buyer, it suggests that the solution brief begin: Your business needs to talk. You are adding video collaboration to fully engage your customers, reduce travel and speed time-to-market.
Above: A screen in Acrolinx’s new platform, evaluating content for a specific reader type The cloud-based platform comes with hundreds of predefined rules, and users can add customized ones for a given business or need. Templates for specific messages or targets can be set up, a dashboard provides a single score as to how well the content meets the targeted criteria, and a terminology-watcher is designed to keep messaging consistent across departments.
Vora told me that, in terms of the platform’s intelligent suggestions to improve messaging and targeting of content marketing, “no one else is doing” what his company’s new platform can offer.
Such content marketing platforms as Idio , however, offer measurement and optimization of topics, and terminology consistency is not uncommon. New platforms like Persado even employ artificial intelligence to automatically generate what it considers the “most persuasive language to drive action.” VentureBeat is studying email marketing tools.
Chime in, and we’ll share the data with you.
In the announcement of Acrolinx’s new offering, Vora went further, saying it “helps content marketing organizations vastly improve results by consistently producing content that is engaging, enjoyable, and impactful.” “Impactful” can be measured by results in generating leads and sales, and “engagement” can be defined as likes, shares, downloads, and actions taken.
But, unless I missed a press release, “enjoyable” is still undefinable.
What is consistently missing from computer-aided wordsmiths is verifiable evidence that the generated or optimized content intriguingly raises an eyebrow, eloquently answers a question, cleverly evokes a laugh, or happily tickles a fancy.
You know, whether it is … interesting.
When the Interesting Engine emerges, we can all retire our keyboards to some computer museum where they’ll become part of a massive diorama showing the days when humans wrote.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
