Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google and Asus unveil new Chrome OS form factors: $249 Chromebook Flip convertible, $100 Chromebit HDMI stick Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google HQ Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
In addition to new Chromebooks for $149 , Google today also unveiled new Chrome OS form factors, in partnership with Asus. The first is a convertible laptop-tablet called the Chromebook Flip, and the second is an HDMI dongle called the Chromebit.
Price at $249, the Chromebook Flip will be available for sale in the Google Store at some point this spring.
Here are the specs for the Asus Chromebook Flip: Weight: less than 2 lbs Screen: 10.1″ IPS display Processor, Memory, and Storage: Rockchip 3288 2GB RAM with 16GB eMMC or Rockchip 3288 with 4GB RAM, 16GB SSD Battery: Up to 10 hours of battery life Inputs: Chrome keyboard, trackpad Ports and Connectors: 2 USB 2.0 Standard A ports, SD Card Reader, headphone/mic combo, HDMI Camera: 720P HD Wireless: 802.11ac (supports a/b/g/n/ac), 2.4 and 5ghz, 2×2 spatial streams, Bluetooth 4.0 BR/EDR/LE, Smart Ready controller Audio: High power stereo speakers, built-in microphone, headphone/mic combo Graphics: ARM Mali 760 quad core GPU More details, like dimensions, exact weight, and battery life, are still up in the air. Google did tell VentureBeat, however, that the Flip is expected to be no thicker than 15mm.
Priced at under $100, the Chromebit is described by Google as “smaller than a candy bar but bigger than a memory stick.” Inside is a full computer, though you’ll have to plug it into an HDMI port to use it.
In short, the device is supposed to turn any display into a Chrome OS computer. You’ll still need all your peripherals, so Google expects it will be more useful as an upgrade for existing desktops in schools and businesses.
Think of it as a Chrome OS trojan horse. Details are scarce for the Chromebit as Google and Asus are still ironing out the specifics, though we do know it has the same processor, memory, and wireless options as the lower-end Chromebook Flip and the $149 Chromebooks announced today.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
