Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Event Toronto and Montreal: the VB Mobile Roadshow is coming Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Montreal Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
First we took L.A., which doesn’t sound quite as significant as taking Manhattan. (And in fact, we didn’t even really take it … we just visited. And spoke.) Then we drove up the I-5 to Seattle (we didn’t actually drive), and we finally popped up into Canada, just a little farther north, in Vancouver.
Now it’s Toronto’s turn. And Montreal.
I’m talking about the VB Mobile Roadshow, which lands in Toronto tomorrow and Montreal on Thursday.
The TL;DR version is this: Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! We’ve started doing research at VB (real, hardcore, significant research).
About 1,500 mobile developers with over a billion monthly active users (MAU) have told us what works and what doesn’t in four key areas of mobile.
We’re coming to tell you what we learned.
We’ll hit two topics in depth: mobile user acquisition and mobile monetization. Along the way, we’ll throw in a few of the juiced bits of our mobile app analytics and mobile marketing automation studies. It’ll be a busy 45 minutes, and we guarantee insights — or your money back.
(Except, of course, you don’t have to pay anything. The VB Mobile Roadshow is entirely free thanks to a sponsor.) Before we talk, we’ll eat and drink. And after we talk, we’ll also eat and drink.
A few spots are still available. Now would be a really good time to grab one of them (in Toronto and Montreal).
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
