Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon is testing Tesla’s new energy storage batteries in California Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Tesla's utility storage.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon Web Services, the largest public cloud around , has started a pilot of the new stackable battery units Tesla unveiled today , under the new Tesla Energy brand.
“We’re excited to roll out a 4.8 megawatt hour pilot of Tesla’s energy storage batteries in our US West (Northern California) Region,” James Hamilton, distinguished engineer at AWS, said in a statement in press materials for today’s product launch. “This complements our strategy to use renewable energy to power our global infrastructure.” In November, AWS committed to running exclusively on renewable energy. The division of Amazon.com announced in January that it’s supporting the development of a wind farm in Indiana.
In today’s statement, Hamilton explains that batteries can “help bridge the gap between intermittent production, from sources like wind, and the data center’s constant power demands.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Tesla says its new batteries can provide several benefits to businesses, including buying power at the lowest possible rates and providing backup. Data centers typically operate with backup generators on hand and ready to go; this provides some of Amazon’s data centers with another option.
The Tesla batteries could provide Amazon with a new competitive advantage as it challenges other cloud providers, like Google and Microsoft, in a market where the slightest cost savings can make a difference.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
