Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft now allows developers to create full-blown apps for the Band Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Microsoft Band Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Up until now only a few apps have been made for the Microsoft Band fitness tracker. One of them is PimpMyBand.
Actually that was a hack, and Microsoft had nothing to do with it. The app allows you to change the background colors on the Band. OK.
Today Microsoft released the full software development kit (SDK) for the Microsoft Health app, the companion app to the Band. So developers can now create legit apps for the Band.
A preview SDK had been available before, but apps created using that could not access all the features and sensors of the Band.
Developers will now be able to create new tiles on the Band’s interface where their apps will live. They’ll be able to create and send notifications to tiles.
They’ll also be able to access the sensors in the Band, which include heart rate, ultraviolet light, accelerometer, gyroscope, and skin temperature.
For example, developers might use the SDK to create a new custom workout app for the Band. Users might keep track of their stats in Microsoft Health.
Apps created using the SDK can be marketed through the Windows, Android, or iOS app stores (The Band can sync Android and Apple phones, not just Windows phones). The apps will be subject to the standard review processes used by the respective app stores, Microsoft says.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
