Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Webinar FinTech Rising: How to create synergies with financial institutions (webinar) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Join us for this live webinar on Wednesday, May 20 at 10 a.m. Pacific, 1 p.m. Eastern.
Register here for free.
Digital technologies and mobile apps are changing the face of financial services — it’s not an overstatement to say the industry is undergoing a major digital transformation. By 2018, U.S. investment in fintech is projected to reach $4.7 billion, and certainly shows no sign of slowing down.
This rapid acceleration is having a significant impact on the relationship between traditional financial institutions (FI) and new digital fintech companies. They are beginning to realize they actually need one another to thrive.
While digital companies can innovate quickly and create better customer experiences, these same companies also lack the financial institution’s data expertise and broad-based knowledge of complex global financial markets, regulation, and high-security networks.
As a result, these two seemingly at-odds segments are now perfectly aligned to benefit one another. In this webinar, you’ll walk away with an understanding of the current fintech market conditions — how we got there — and exactly what’s needed to put this kind of symbiosis between traditional FIs and digital fintech startups into action.
Don’t miss out! Register here for free.
What you’ll learn: Why fintech is such a hot investment globally What financial institutions have that fintech startups need, and vice versa How financial institutions are evolving their software service strategy How to innovate legacy banking systems and create joint collaboration with fintech startups The future of mobile payments and digital money management Speakers: Collin Canright, Principal, Canright Communications Collin is a consultant and principal at Canright Communications, a Chicago-based marketing communications firm, serving clients in banking, trading, technology, and professional services. His articles on fintech, payments, ecommerce, and banking currently appear in Independent Banker magazine and his blog, FinCom. Collin has worked in finance and technology for nearly 30 years as a journalist, marketer, and technical writer.
Jason Henrichs, Partner, The Kinetic Group Jason is the Managing Partner of the Kinetic Group, Co-Founder of FinTEx Chicago and part of the startup ecosystem as a founder, board member, advisor, mentor and investor. Jason is active as a mentor across the TechStars network. He’s previously helped found PerkStreet Financial, Britemoon and US Genomics. He is an investor in Blacksmith Applications, Blueleaf, Fundly, Helpscout, Seahorse Biosciences and Zagster. He is also the past President of the Massachusetts’s Service Alliance and advisor to City Year.
Jason O’Shaughnessy, VP of International, Yodlee Interactive Jason has more than 25 years’ experience in business development, working with high-tech businesses that range from large corporations to innovative start-up ventures. Jason now currently heads up Yodlee Inc’s Business Development team for its International markets. Jason established Yodlee’s International operations in 2003, and has since grown Yodlee’s footprint in more than eight countries across Asia and EMEA.
Jesse Po dell, Co-Founder & COO, TechDay Jesse is Co-Founder & COO of TechDay, North America’s largest event series. TechDay’s flagship event, NY TechDay took place April 23rd and hosted over 13,000 registered attendees and over 450 startups. TechDay also holds events in Washington, D.C. and Los Angeles, with several more cities will be announced in 2016. From 2013-2014, Jesse co-organized the largest fintech meetup group in the country, NY Fintech Startups with over 3,500 members and also co-founded the Fintech Startups Conference. Prior to working with startups, Jesse spend twelve years in trading and business development roles on the buy and sell side.
Moderator: Evan Schuman Evan has covered IT issues for a lot longer than he’ll ever admit. The founding editor of retail technology site StorefrontBacktalk, he’s been a columnist for CBSNews.com, RetailWeek, Computerworld, and eWeek.
Register here for free.
This webinar is sponsored by Yodlee.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
