Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Tim Draper leads $1.2M investment in Bitcoin startup Hedgy Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Tip your favorite streamers with magical money.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Hedgy, a Bitcoin company that hopes to tackle the cryptocurrency’s volatility issues, has emerged from Adam Draper’s Boost accelerator with $1.2 million in hand.
In addition to the funding, the company also announced that its block-chain enabled contracts are now available.
Hedgy is collaborating with Bitcoin mining outfit MegaBigPower to allow miners to sign smart contracts that hedge mining payments for a predetermined date and price. Hedgy serves as a trusted third-party that helps to suss out the appropriate price using a weighted pricing index called the TradeBlock XBX.
Because of the increasing cost of mining, some miners are wary of continuing operations. What Hedgy serves to do is give miners certainty that the price of Bitcoin won’t drop so rapidly that they actually lose money on mining.
Adam’s father and longtime Bitcoin enthusiast Tim Draper led this round of investment, while Marc Benioff, Sand Hill Angels, and others contributed. The elder Draper is very keen on cryptocurrency and on building out a fintech scene on the west coast; he recently launched an incubator called Fintech Connection that resides at Hero City in San Mateo, California.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
