Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages DayZ creator Dean Hall on the gaming trend he wants to see: ‘cruelty and loss’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn DayZ is an incredibly challenging game that doesn't try to coddle the player.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Disclosure: The organizers of the Slush game conference paid my way Iceland, where I was the master of ceremonies. Our coverage remains objective.
People can stand losing things, and they find cruelty unfair, but the guy responsible for DayZ thinks that humans want both in their games.
Dean Hall, the chief executive officer of developer Rocketwerkz, is well known for creating a difficult zombie-survival game where you can lose everything at any moment if you come across the wrong people. It’s something that doesn’t sound fun because it doesn’t mesh with other games that make us feel like super heroes. But millions of people have bought DayZ, and millions more play tough games like Eve Online, Dark Souls, and Bloodborne.
Above: Dean Hall giving his presentation at SlushPlay in Reykjavik, Iceland.
And that’s something that Hall wants to see more of.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “I don’t care what the market is doing,” Hall told a crowd of developers and industry people at the SlushPlay gaming conference in Iceland this past week. “I don’t care what the competitors are doing. I don’t care what the numbers show. I just care about what I want to play.” But even at his own studio, Hall often finds it difficult to get what he wants. He says that making games can be very frustrating because development already has so many preconceived notions.
“I’ll give you an example from the game we’re working on in London,” said Hall. “I sat down with one of our artists who [used to work at Skyrim developer Bethesda]. And I was explaining how I wanted darkness to work.” Hall said he told the artist that he wanted the game to be “dark — really dark.” “So I go away, and when I came back to look at it, I could still see,” said Hall.
Instead of going for “really” dark — where “really” means “as it is in reality” — Hall’s artist went for “game dark.” This was for a number of reasons, but primarily it’s because that’s just how darkness works in games. And that’s a problem for Hall.
He went on to use Grand Theft Auto: Online as an example.
“It’s really exciting to play something like GTA: Online because there are people and cars and it looks amazing,” said Hall. “But when you start to push against its ‘paper walls,’ you start to notice that nothing changes. And that’s always really bothered me. When I’m gaming, I want to feel like what I’m doing matters.” Making a gamer care about what they’re doing in a virtual world is difficult, but Hall thinks he has a clear way of doing things.
He said that he learned from making DayZ that humans naturally understand the concept of loss and cruelty. He built that game as training software for his fellow soldiers in the New Zealand armed forces, and they didn’t really take it seriously at first.
“It was when I added simulated loss to DayZ that the soldiers started having an emotional response,” said Hall. “Normally, you go into a simulation and people are dying and you just carry on. But that’s not what happens in real life. So I think people just intrinsically understand cruelty and loss.” And while that makes the game difficult, and blows up the notion that the player is “special,” Hall thinks that’s what people want.
“And it’s something I’m exploring in my next game,” said Hall. “I’m even looking at the concept of madness. If you haven’t spent any time around another player in a while, you’ll start to get some cabin fever going.” He thinks that it’s layers like this that really enthrall players, and he wants to just keep adding to it. Hall says these things are some of the best ways to achieve immersion, and other developers can take advantage of that as well “I don’t know if any of this is a trend,” he said. “But I want it to be.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
