Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Salesforce acquires smart calendar app Tempo AI, will shut it down on June 30 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Tempo's smart calendar app Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Salesforce has bought Tempo AI, a startup with a smart calendar app.
Tempo AI announced the news today in a post on its homepage.
The app is no longer accepting new users and will be shut down on June 30, according to the statement.
“Joining the Salesforce family will give us the opportunity to continue our mission at a much larger scale,” the Tempo AI team wrote in the statement.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! People who paid for the iOS app can request a refund through Apple’s App Store.
Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.
The deal follows Microsoft’s acquisition of calendar app Sunrise earlier this year. Also this year, Google bought Timeful , a startup with an app that automatically puts activities on your calendar based on your input.
Salesforce itself bought a mobile authentication startup Toopher earlier this year . The enterprise-software heavyweight has been gradually expanding its feature set. Last year Salesforce introduced the Wave cloud-based analytics app.
 That’s still a new market for Salesforce, which is better known for customer relationship management, service desk, and marketing automation software.
Tempo AI started in 2010 and was based in Menlo Park, Calif.
In 2013 the startup announced a $10 million funding round. Investors include Eniac Ventures, Golden Venture Partners, Horizon Ventures, Mayfield Fund, Miramar Venture Partners, Qualcomm Ventures, Relay Ventures, Seavest Capital Partners, Sierra Ventures, SingTel Innov8, and SRI International.
As of December the app was available in 26 countries, with support for nine languages, including Norwegian and Polish.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
