Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Here’s how much it would cost to build Zelda’s castle, Resident Evil’s mansion, and more out of Lego blocks Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Hyrule Castle from The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time would cost quite a lot to build out of little colorful plastic bricks.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
If the Three Little Pigs taught us anything, it’s that wolves have incredible lung capacity. But it also taught us you should build your homes out of something reliable … like Lego! Thankfully, the Movoto real-estate blog has done some math and sorcery to figure out how much it would cost you in raw Lego to build some of gaming’s most famous buildings. Turns out you’ll need a few million bucks to live anywhere respectable … like the zombie-infested mansion from Resident Evil.
Let’s check out a few highlights. You can see Movoto’s full list right here.
Hyrule Castle from The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Cost: $23,099,417 Square footage: 82,950 Lego bricks: 230,994,170 Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! It’s one of the most famous structures in all of gaming, Hyrule Castle. And you could build your own out of Lego with just a little more than $23 million. But you can subtract costs for any Lego you have in your closet.
Of course, that price doesn’t include constructions costs. You’re going to need to pay a crew to piece together your kingdom, and I’m not sure what the union rules are in Hyrule, but you could save some cash if you have an army of moblins working for you.
Above: Or you could build this tiny Hyrule Castle for, like, $50.
Spencer Mansion from Resident Evil Cost: $4,000,739 Square Footage: 10,125 Lego bricks: 40,037,388 For this one, I don’t think the $4 million is the biggest hurdle to making a convincing Resident Evil mansion. The question is, how do you build undead flesh-eating humans out of the toy blocks? One this is for sure: As I’ve learned from stepping on a Lego piece, they are definitely sharp enough to serve as zombie teeth.
The castle from Castlevania Cost: $5,402,962 Square Footage: 15,680 Lego bricks: 54,029,624 Publisher Konami is running away from the traditional gaming space, so maybe you could just buy the real Castlevania from it for a discount. But if not, you could always piece together 54 million gray Lego to make your own.
Again, your real costs here are the upkeep on ghouls and hiring exterminators to eliminate rogue shopkeepers that will pop up in unused rooms.
Above: Dracula’s home is ever-changing and magical — maybe because it really is made of Lego.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
