Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz uses games to make himself seem more genuine Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Texas Senator Ted Cruz wants to be the first U.S. president who grew up playing games.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
We’re still 600 days away from swearing in a new president of the United States, but that’s not stopping candidates from looking for any edge they can find in their campaigns.
That includes Republican Party presidential hopeful Sen. Ted Cruz (Texas) trying to improve his appeal by talking up his love of video games in an interview with The Daily Beast.
 The far-right Tea Party conservative said that he’s playing Plants vs. Zombies for his smartphone along with Candy Crush Saga, but he actually grew up playing stuff a lot more hardcore than that.
“I was a kid growing up in the ’70s and ’80s,” said Cruz. “I had a Nintendo, an Atari. I still remember the Christmas we got our first Pong game.” Cruz was even a huge gamer through his time in college in the early 1990s. That’s when his roommate says they spent time playing Super Mario Bros. and fighting games like Street Fighter II. But the senator doesn’t play on consoles or PC these days, but that doesn’t mean he is no longer a fan.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “I don’t have a console mostly as a time-management tool,” said Cruz. “Because if I had one, I would use it far too much.” Cruz went on to say that he uses smartphone and tablet titles as a way to connect with his daughters, but it’s clear that this is also one of the ways he is trying to connect with voters as well. He is well known for giving canned, well-rehearsed answers to questions. That has caused many to question how sincere he is or whether he is always a calculating politician.
By coming out and establishing himself as someone who grew up playing games, he could endear himself to young people. At least, to those young people who don’t know that he doesn’t understand net neutrality or that he compared President Barack Obama to Adolf Hitler for passing the Affordable Care Act.
But hey — he might know what a shoryuken is.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
