Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages 2 Uber executives arrested in France will stand trial for allowing ‘illegal’ taxi services Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Uber Things are going from bad to worse for Uber in France, as news emerges that Uber France and two company executives who were taken into custody yesterday morning are to stand trial on September 30.
We reported yesterday that Pierre Dimitri , Uber’s general manager for Western Europe, and Thibaud Simphal , Uber’s general manager for France, had attended a meeting with police voluntarily, but they remained in custody and were not free to leave off their own accord. While it was believed that no charges had been brought against Uber or the representatives in question, things have now changed.
The two executives will face charges based on carrying out “deceptive commercial practices,” permitting “illegal taxi services,” and “illicit storage of personal data.” Uber has confirmed to VentureBeat the two employees have now been released from custody, however.
The charges come amid mounting pressure on French authorities to curb what critics have called unfair, anti-competitive practices by Uber. UberPop — the local ride-sharing equivalent of UberX in the U.S. — connects travelers with private car owners. It lets anyone become a taxi driver, with no regulation or licensing, and it has raised the ire of taxi drivers across France.
Mass protests have hit major cities across the country, with local taxi drivers accusing authorities of creating one rule for them and another for Uber.
However, UberPop’s legal status has been challenged in France before, and a law was passed last October that apparently banned UberPop and other similar services operating in the country. But Uber continued to offer the service anyway, and even won a temporary reprieve in a Paris court, pending further clarification of a law it argued was unclear and unconstitutional.
Following the wave of violent protests in France last week, the country’s interior minister publicly called for a nationwide ban on UberPop , a move that looked like it was designed to placate disgruntled taxi drivers more than anything else. However, authorities are now pulling no punches in its endeavors to stop UberPop from operating, and it’s clear that it’s willing to hold Uber employees personally responsible.
This is the latest in a long line of legal wrangles Uber has faced around the world. Back in March, Uber’s Paris offices were raided by police , and a month later an Amsterdam-based Uber employee was arrested for failing to “cooperate” during a raid on its hub in the Netherlands. Elsewhere, Uber CEO Travis Kalanick was charged in South Korea for running “an illegal taxi ring,” though he’s not likely to travel to South Korea to face the charges any time soon.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
