Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Gamurs is a new all-in-one social network for … well, gamers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Gamurs is a new social networking site for gamers.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Gamurs today launched its new cross-platform social networking site for the gaming community.
The Australia-based startup has created a single site where people can share achievements, news, videos, and livestreams. It enables users to integrate their social and gaming accounts — including PlayStation Network, Xbox Live, Valve’s Steam, Blizzard’s Battle.net, Twitter, Twitch, and YouTube — into a single platform and compete on automated game-specific leaderboards. It also organizes all new content automatically, assigning it to a specific game without users needing to tag or link posts. The goal is carve into a market the company believes is relatively untapped — one with nearly 2 billion gamers worldwide.
Gamurs founder Riad Chikhani started the social network to let gamers share achievements with like-minded people and help avoid swamping their non-gaming friends and family with “nerdy” game stats. The 20 year old just recently secured a $385,000 seed funding round to help make Gamurs into a single platform that can help connect the estimated 1.78 billion gamers across the globe.
Social networking for gamers is still an untapped market, says Gamurs head of marketing Dean Jacobson, despite the existence of more established competitors like Playfire and Raptr.
 “There is no single service with a suite of features that can adequately and effectively provide for the wide demographic of the gaming community,” he told GamesBeat via email. “One thing that differentiates us from many of the incumbents is that we have a unique approach to product development. Anything we build and deploy is only done through countless member interactions, surveys and conversations. We ensure the feature is useful through validated — or invalidated — learnings.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Last year, Raptr rebooted as a PC-focused communication platform, shunning the latest generation of home consoles. Gamurs, however, intends to support all games played across all platforms — including mobile.
“One thing true regarding the gaming industry is that gamers, whether they’re on the PC, Xbox, PlayStation, or even mobile, play games similarly,” said Jacobson. “This allows us to deploy features which are universal to the gaming industry.
“Prior to development of the platform, we surveyed 1,400 people and saw that 60 percent played more than four games a week on separate platforms. By providing a powerful and versatile platform catering for every game a player plays, it is virtually irrelevant whether they are on a console or PC, especially with the availability of data from the publishers.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
