Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Watch Mario creator Shigeru Miyamoto visit Kermit and more at Jim Henson Studios Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Shigeru Miyamoto with the Star Fox Muppet.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
If you grew up through the 1980s, some of you likely thought that Nintendo and The Muppets were the coolest things in the world. Well, it turns out that the two companies admire each other as well.
Mario, Zelda, and Star Fox creator Shigeru Miyamoto recently paid a visit to the Jim Henson Studios, and Nintendo just shared a video of his tour. The clip shows the legendary game designer getting a first look at his own Muppet as well as a conversation he had with Jim Henson Studios chairperson Brian Henson. It’s clear that Miyamoto was thrilled to get a close look at where Muppets are made.
Check it out in the video below: Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Miyamoto’s tour of Jim Henson Studios came as the result of Nintendo enlisting the children’s entertainment company for help with its annual Digital Event. As part of the Electronic Entertainment Expo industry trade show earlier this month, Nintendo asked Jim Henson Studios for help making a funny video to introduce some new games. That led to puppet versions of Nintendo president Satoru Iwata, Nintendo of America president Reggie Fils-Aime, as well as Miyamoto. Additionally, Jim Henson Studios also crafted Muppets of characters from the Star Fox games.
You can see the result of that partnership in the video below: https://youtu.be/QPDPSezEkcY GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
