Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages BPM’Online’s updated CRM offers one end of the sales tool spectrum Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
With sales tools proliferating like kudzu, two new releases this week typify the ends of the sales management spectrum.
One is AppMesh’s version 3.0 of its SalesMesh tool , launched Tuesday.
It creates a parallel customer relationship management (CRM) outside of Salesforce, so sales reps can keep their deal info, contacts, and even communications with other sales reps outside of that popular ecosystem until the deal seems likely. That helps keep overbearing managers off reps’ backs.
The other end of the spectrum is BPM’Online , whose version 7.6 of its cloud-based CRM for sales, marketing, and customer service is out today.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The company’s differentiator is embodied in its name, whose initials stand for built-in business process management.
“By having an automated process,” senior vice president and general manager Mike Rooney told me, “you can direct a sales team to follow a methodology.” “Sales managers want consistent qualification of pipelines,” he said, so sales reps can’t arbitrarily move opportunities to different stages. In Salesforce and GoldMine , he noted, end users can move opportunities from stage to stage, but the sales manager might want to know, “Why do you have this opportunity at a 90 percent likelihood?” New features in version 7.6 extend the platform’s emphasis on business processes. There’s now the ability for sales managers to set up guided activities for reps’ field visits, along with GPS tracking to help determine which reps are the most efficient.
Above: A screen in the newest version of BPM’Online, showing a sales rep’s activities.
Calendar events can now be triggered by the activity queue, email campaign tools have been expanded with such functions as activity-based triggers, and the integration with Facebook is expanded. There’s also now video calling between platform users, an updated self-service customer portal, and new training resources.
Whether used for field sales, long-term corporate sales, or call centers, Rooney said, “the [BPM] system is kind of on a conveyor belt.” I asked if BPM’Online’s approach was designed for a different kind of salesperson or structure than, say, AppMesh’s.
Perhaps AppMesh works well for more independent sales reps, Rooney suggested, like commission-based insurance or real estate reps.
But if I have employees who are paid salaries, he said, “I’m looking for transparency.” AppMesh is targeted at small companies. Even though it allows reps to sync with Salesforce when they want, over half of its customers don’t even use Salesforce or any other CRM.
By contrast, BPM’Online — which has been around for a venerable 13 years — focuses globally on large enterprises and in the U.S. on midsize to large enterprises.
Compared to BPM’Online’s baked-in business processes, Rooney pointed out that Salesforce and SugarCRM have added business process management.
Additionally, he noted that social tools are integrated into BPM’Online’s interface, and its sales, marketing, and service functions are integrated into one platform.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
