Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages How to make sure you don’t get charged for Apple Music Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Update September 29 : Tomorrow marks the end of Apple’s three-month free trial. Now’s the time to cancel Apple Music if you don’t want to pay for it.
Apple Music launched with a three-month free trial, but we’re already thinking ahead to the monthly subscription fee the company will start charging in September.
Here’s how to shut off Apple Music’s auto-renew feature, so that you can actively decide whether you want the service or not. There are two methods: Option 1: App Store Open up the App Store app on your iDevice and scroll all the way to the bottom of the “Featured” page. There you’ll see a button with your Apple ID. Click on that and it will launch the following pop-up message: Selecting “View Apple ID” will redirect you to your Account Settings, where you can manage subscriptions. Then look for a heading called Subscriptions, beneath which you’ll find a button that reads “Manage.” Within the “Subscriptions” page, select your Apple Music membership.
From there you will have the option to turn off auto-renewal. Don’t worry, you still get the three-month free trial if you turn off auto-renew.
Option 2: Via the Apple Music app You can also access your Apple Music subscription through the Apple Music app. To do so, click on the little circular avatar in the upper left hand corner of the Apple Music screen.
Then click “View Apple ID.” And presto! You have found your way to the subscriptions management page.
From here, click on the “Manage” button and then deselect the tab marked “Auto-renew.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
