Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages The first band played on Beats 1 calls Zane Lowe ‘an absolute legend’ for playing their song Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The formerly unknown band Spring King is loving life today, after having their song “City” played at the very top of the first broadcast of Apple’s new Beats1 streaming radio service.
Above: The lads.
The official Beats1 broadcast started at 9 a.m. PDT Tuesday. In the half hour leading up to that time, main DJ Zane Lowe could be heard addressing problems with the broadcast. But by 9 a.m. things seemed to be worked out.
“Alright man we’ve got to kick this thing off at some point,” Lowe said at the strike of 9 a.m. Shortly after that, Spring King’s song started.
The band seemed to appreciate it, calling Lowe “a legend” in a tweet.
yo @zanelowe are you kidding?!!?!? you just spun our tune! you're an absolute legend!! — Spring King (@springkingband) June 30, 2015 Actually, we may have just heard the most important three minutes of Spring King’s career this morning.
And, by the way, the song fairly cooks. Check out the video: VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
