Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Cultural Institute doubles its artwork to 170,000 items as 80 new museums go online Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Cultural Institute Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Google is ramping up its online exhibition space with the news that it’s bringing 80 new museums to the Google Cultural Institute , effectively doubling the amount of artwork available on its platform.
The Google Cultural Institute is the Google arm responsible for working with art and cultural bodies to help digitize offline exhibits — this includes documenting the history of cinema , Nelson Mandela’s time in prison , the fall of the Iron Curtain , and more.
Among the new exhibitions are more than 40,000 objects and 3D imagery from the Freer and Sackler Galleries in Washington D.C.,which let you traverse the venue using Street View-style panning and scrolling. There’s also 45,000 images from the National Gallery of Art.
Above: Google Cultural Institute: Freer and Sackler A myriad of smaller exhibits have also been added to the mix, covering everything from psychiatric museums to the evolution of dolls through time.
This launch represents the biggest single collection that’s been added to the Google Cultural Institute since its inception back in 2011, and brings the total sum of artwork to 170,000 items, up from 90,000 previously. There are also six million photos, videos, manuscripts, and more available to view.
Today’s launch comes six months after Google opened up the Cultural Institute as a platform , letting museums and galleries create their own dedicated apps. This leans heavily on Google’s technology, as you’d expect, including tools such as YouTube and Street View. It’s designed for those without the technical nous to create their own apps from scratch.
Google also recently launched a neat new extension for Chrome that displays a fresh piece of art from the likes of Van Gogh or Monet each time you open a new tab.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
