Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Funding Daily: Today’s tech funding news, in one place Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Here’s a list of today’s tech funding stories, updated as the day unfolds. Tip us here if you have a deal to share.
Uber reportedly raises $1B at a $51B valuation from investors including Microsoft Uber has raised a new $1 billion funding round, which pushes the company’s valuation to $51 billion.
The new investment money comes from Microsoft and Indian media conglomerate Bennett Coleman & Co., according to a new report from the Wall Street Journal, citing unnamed sources familiar with the matter.
Uber will reportedly use the money to expand its ride-hailing service into more foreign cities.
The report points out that Uber had briefed investors on a plan to raise between $1.5 billion and $2 billion in May. Uber confirms that it filed regulatory papers to do so.
Read more Integral Ad Science takes in $67M Data advertising company Integral Ad Science announced today that it raised a $27 million round. The investment was led by Sapphire Ventures and Cross Creek Advisors. The Startup also announced it took in $40 million in debt financing from Silicon Valley Bank.
Integral said the funds will help its “ongoing mission of providing the digital advertising industry with innovative technology that delivers actionable intelligence for media buying and selling.” More: Integral Ad Science Mobile telematic startup Driveway puts $10M in its glove compartment Startup Driveway Software closed a $10 million series A round to grow its mobile telematics technology, which apparently gives users “objective ratings” on their driving styles, the San Francisco-based company announced today.
The round was led by Ervington Investments, an investing arm for Russian businessman and Chelsea Football Club owner Roman Abramovich. Driveway has raised $11.3 million so far, and it plans to double its 20-person team within the next three months. It is also said to be working with insurance companies and other prospective partners.
Read more This list will be updated with breaking funding news all day. Check back for more.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
