Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Webinar How to build financial apps to meet rapidly-evolving customer expectations (webinar) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Join us for this live webinar on Thursday, August 20th at 10 a.m. Pacific, 1 p.m. Eastern.
Register here for free.
The fintech explosion has brought profound consumer innovations that increased financial inclusion and made financial management easier for all (and likely, raised the bar on consumer expectations). However, the pace of change is increasing and both banks and fintech innovators need to do even more to ensure they are well-positioned to succeed in the future.
Financial institutions (FI’s) may have just begun to come to grips with online and mobile banking innovations, but recent advances in wearable technology and the Internet of Things (IOT) provides a glimpse of customer engagement expectations in the very near future.
To succeed in this rapidly changing landscape, FIs and fintech innovators need to define how they want to succeed – whether to shape the industry by themselves, create value-added partnerships together, or manage defensively by putting off change. And they need to have a clear strategy to deal with the challenges posed by a massive generational shift in banking expectations.
As a result, the financial services industry is being reshaped by disruptive technology and a partnership between fintech and traditional financial institutions.
Don’t miss out! Register here for free.
As Matt Harris of Bain Capital Ventures has been quoted, “The financial crisis caused the banks to realize they needed to partner with innovators. This has really opened up opportunities.” In this webinar aimed at disruptive entrepreneurs, our panel of disrupters and financial experts will share valuable insights from the trenches. We’ll look at the needs of consumers and how those are feeding change. We’ll look at the role of financial institutions, and the role of fintech, and where the intersection and partnership opportunities lie. And we’ll look at growth fueled by wearables and the impact of the Internet of Things. If you’re a fintech startup, you won’t want to miss these essential learnings.
What you’ll learn: What’s driving change in fintech How to prepare for the coming wave of wearable technology How to prepare for Generation Z Why collaboration is the path forward to create killer fintech applications Speakers: Josh Gordon-Blake , SVP of Global Partnerships at Pangea Grant Karsas , VP of Customer and Member Success at HelloWallet Dr. Richard M. Smith , Founder and CEO of TradeStops Elizabeth Gunderson , Senior Manager of Customer Success at Yodlee Interactive Evan Schuman , Moderator, VentureBeat The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
