Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Uber reportedly raises $1B at a $51B valuation from investors including Microsoft Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Uber has raised a new $1 billion funding round, which pushes the company’s valuation to $51 billion.
The new investment money comes from Microsoft and Indian media conglomerate Bennett Coleman & Co., according to a new report from the Wall Street Journal, citing unnamed sources familiar with the matter.
Uber will reportedly use the money to expand its ride-hailing service into more foreign cities.
The report points out that Uber had briefed investors on a plan to raise between $1.5 billion and $2 billion in May. Uber confirms that it filed regulatory papers to do so.
The WSJ report points out that Uber has now exceeded the private company venture funding record set by Facebook. Facebook reached a $50 billion valuation in 2011 when Goldman Sachs sold shares in the startup to wealthy foreign investors.
At the time, Facebook had been around for seven years. Today, Uber has been around for five.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
