Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages GamesBeat weekly roundup: Windows 10, Angry Birds 2, and Nintendo profits Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Windows 10 Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Welcome to another GamesBeat weekly roundup! This time, we helped gamers get the most out of Windows 10, we celebrated 2005’s best games, and we showed how digital entertainment is helping veterans.
Happy reading, and have a great weekend! Pieces of flair and opinion The DeanBeat: With China, your game strategy has to be ‘go big or go home’ EA’s Ultimate Team has remade the sports-game landscape Windows 10 tips for gamers: How to save your bandwidth, do a clean install, and more How to download and install Windows 10 without using Windows Update Comparing digital card games: Hearthstone vs. Magic Duels vs. SolForge vs. EarthCore How to force Windows to start downloading the Windows 10 update files GamesBeat giveaway: 20 PlanetSide 2 starter bundles for PlayStation 4 10 years later: GamesBeat’s most memorable games of 2005 What designers can learn from kids’ games How video games are helping veterans with life after war Above: So fresh! News Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Hitbox allows streamers with few viewers to still make ad money — unlike Twitch You can now walk Hideo Kojima’s creepy P.T. hallway on PC … kind of Electronic Arts made 77% of its Q1 2016 revenue from digital sales Electronic Arts smashes analyst expectations with strong Q1 2016 earnings Windows 10 gets four new games from Game Insight Koei Tecmo turns seminal Japanase novellas into Arslan: The Warriors of Legend for the West Razer brings virtual reality to China The PlayStation 4 is on track to become the best-selling console ever League of Legends gets an Apple Watch app Epic’s graphics guru Tim Sweeney predicts augmented reality will eliminate monitors and TVs Paralo launches Kickstarter campaign for another inexpensive VR headset Wii U gets three classic Kirby games today to celebrate his 1992 debut Capcom wants your thoughts on a Resident Evil 2 remake Electronic Sports League and Plays.TV bring something new to esports: the player’s view Five Nights at Freddy’s developer on hate and working at Dollar General Xbox Live is down again as some gamers have difficulty logging on (update) Occipital captures a new $13M funding round for 3D imaging technology Nintendo’s share price up 5% thanks to late president Satoru Iwata keeping his promise Blizzard is revealing the next World of Warcraft expansion at Gamescom Tencent focuses on ‘pan entertainment’ strategy for the Internet to go from giant to juggernaut Pirates are successfully upgrading to Windows 10 for free Nintendo launches new look for Miiverse today Xbox chief hopes Halo: The Master Chief Collection will boost China console sales Titanfall is heading to Asia as a free-to-play online game Splatoon helps Nintendo return to profit in Satoru Iwata’s final quarter Nintendo has sold 1.62M copies of Splatoon worldwide Nintendo sold 1M 3DSes and 470K Wii U consoles last quarter Nintendo had its best fiscal Q1 since 2012 as it beats analyst expectations PSN is down once again for gamers on Sony consoles Chinese government official urges country’s developers to expand worldwide Windows 10 gaming team explains what you can expect from the new OS Porn site SugarDVD wants HoloLens owners to download Kim Kardashian’s body How to get Minecraft: Windows 10 Edition for free if you own the PC version Windows 10 is coming, and both AMD’s and Nvidia’s graphics cards are ready Intel claims its new memory tech will usher in 8K gaming Microsoft’s HoloLens TV studio is upgrading one of gaming’s cheesiest tropes 2K teases Mafia III announcement for next week Dragon Quest XI announced for Nintendo NX, PlayStation 4, and 3DS Psyonix shows off Rocket League’s first free DLC map Kickstarter game funding is on the rise — but most of the money is still going to a few big names Capcom postpones Street Fighter V beta and apologizes Italian game publisher Digital Bros opens subsidiary in China Nintendo’s NX could be the Wii of augmented and virtual reality, predicts one analyst Shinra Technologies launches dev tools to build massive cloud-based game worlds Razer confirms it has acquired Ouya’s software assets, founding CEO departs (updated) PlayStation 4 is getting dedicated keyboard and mouse controls Schwarzenegger’s Terminator is playable in WWE 2K16 China to allow game console sales across whole country, report says Above: So angry.
Mobile and social Mobcrush hires ex-Apple, Google bigwigs to put mobile gamers first on its video Simpsons: Tapped Out veteran starts own studio to make ‘playable data’ Kabam’s Marvel: Contest of Champions mobile game hits $100M Angry Birds 2 launches worldwide on iOS and Android today Alphabear’s fun and charm make it im-paws-ible to put down SpellUp’s impatience and inconsistency will be your downfall Previews and reviews Party Hard is the goofy mass-killing game for the Twitch generation Magic Duels is the best digital version of the beloved card game Funk of Titans fails to live up to its awesome name Sorcerer King shows that Stardock has finally found the fantasy-strategy fun Skyforge looks terrific — now, Obsidian’s new MMO needs a story GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
