Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Researcher says he can hack GM’s OnStar app, open vehicle, start engine Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A mobile phone displays the OnStar app inside a Chevrolet Volt vehicle in this photo illustration taken in Encinitas, California, July 30, 2015. REUTERS/Mike Blake Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
BOSTON/DETROIT (Reuters) – A researcher is advising drivers not to use a mobile app for the General Motors OnStar vehicle communications system, saying hackers can exploit a security flaw in the product to unlock cars and start engines remotely.
“White-hat” hacker Samy Kamkar posted a video on Thursday saying he had figured out a way to “locate, unlock and remote-start” vehicles by intercepting communications between the OnStar RemoteLink mobile app and the OnStar service.
Kamkar said he plans to provide technical details on the hack next week in Las Vegas at the Def Con conference, where tens of thousands of hacking aficionados will gather to learn about new cybersecurity vulnerabilities.
Kamkar released the video a week after Fiat Chrysler Automobiles recalled some 1.4 million vehicles after hacking experts demonstrated a more serious vulnerability in the Jeep Cherokee. That bug allowed them to gain remote control of a Jeep traveling at 70 miles per hour on a public highway.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! GM spokesman Terrence Rhadigan told Reuters via email that the company was preparing an update to the RemoteLink app that would address the vulnerability. “It’s days away,” Rhadigan said.
When asked via email if it was safe to use the app before an update is released, Rhadigan said: “We believe the chances of replicating this demonstration in the real world are unlikely. In addition, the action involves one user at a time, and would impact only that specific user’s account.” The issue drew the attention of U.S. safety regulators from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
Agency representatives discussed the issue with GM officials, who said the flaw could involve doors and engine start-stop but does not involve other critical safety systems, according to a person familiar with those discussions.
The agency responded by making some suggestions, including disabling the app’s function until customers perform the update, according to the person.
More than 3 million people have downloaded the OnStar RemoteLink mobile app for Apple iOS and Google devices, according to OnStar’s website.
(Reporting by Bernie Woodall in Detroit and Jim Finkle in Boston; Editing by Jonathan Oatis, Jeffrey Benkoe and Dan Grebler) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
