Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Yahoo will acquire the social shopping site Polyvore Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Yahoo announced today that it has agreed to buy the social shopping site Polyvore.
The sale price was not announced. The deal is the most recent in a spree of more than 50 acquisitions by Yahoo since Melissa Mayer took the helm three years ago.
Polyvore will continue to offer its core service on a stand-alone basis. Much of the Polyvore staff will move over to Yahoo, including the CEO, Jess Lee.
Yahoo expects the acquisition to enhance its own consumer and advertiser offerings, namely its digital magazines. Some of the Polyvore social and e-commerce tools could be integrated with the Yahoo Style and Yahoo Beauty sites.
“When it comes to advertising, Polyvore’s technology will bring a proven native ad model, new compelling native ad formats, and strong advertising relationships with more than 350 retailers to Yahoo’s fast-growing native advertising platform, Yahoo Gemini,” Yahoo said in a statement announcing the deal.
At Polyvore, community members can arrange and display collages of clothing, or arrange coordinated pieces of home decor.
Polyvore’s investors include Goldman Sachs, DAG Ventures, Benchmark Capital, and Matrix Partners.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
