Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple poaches key augmented reality engineer from Microsoft HoloLens team Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Analyst Gene Munster has a nice scoop in his latest research report, and it concerns Apple starting to build out its augmented reality initiative. Apple recruited a key HoloLens engineer away from Miscrosoft, possibly to work on Apple’s own AR product.
Here’s Munster in the research brief, sent to VentureBeat late last night.
“One of the most well known AR projects comes from Microsoft and is called the HoloLens.
 Apple hired away the lead HoloLens audio engineer at Microsoft. The former Microsoft employee is now listed as ‘Engineer’ for Apple.” The engineer in question is very likely Nick Thompson , who, according to LinkedIn, worked for Microsoft’s Mountain View, California facility as “Audio Hardware Engineering Lead” from September 2012 to July 2015.
The audio part of the augmented reality experience is very, very important. Munster describes one use case Apple and others may be thinking about or actively working on: Instead of doing a video call with a normal camera you could use sensors that utilize computer vision to capture space via 3D scanning. The 3D image that is captured by the sensors can then be broadcasted into an AR headset that is located far away. The AR headset would take the 3D image and reconstruct the scene to make it appear as if the person were actually in the room.
Munster includes a link to this video to demonstrate the concept: He continues: We believe AR audio is often thought of as not important or secondary to the experience, however, we believe positional audio is what sells the experience and convinces the user there is a real object in front of you or behind you. The ability to re-create sound coming from a distinct location and changes based on proximity and direction of the object should not be overlooked.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
