Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages You can now edit files from Egnyte in Office 365 and Salesforce Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Egnyte booth at VMware's 2015 VMworld conference in San Francisco on Aug. 31.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Egnyte, a startup with file syncing and sharing software that can run in the cloud (like Dropbox) and in companies’ on-premises data centers (like Microsoft SharePoint), has developed new integrations with web-based Microsoft Office 365 and Salesforce Sales Cloud. The integrations allow people to edit and save files right from within Office 365 and Salesforce.
With the Office integration, you can now open and edit files inside Office desktop apps like Word, as if it’s just another file locally stored on a PC. The integration also works with Microsoft’s Office mobile apps and on the Internet.
An Egnyte employee was showing off the new integrations today at the Egnyte booth on the exhibition floor at VMware’s 2015 VMworld conference in San Francisco. The company has a blog post on the news here.
Box, which only offers cloud-based file syncing and sharing, made an announcement about a similar integration with Office Online earlier this year.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! These integrations matter for Egnyte because people actually write documents in Word, prepare presentations in PowerPoint, and assemble spreadsheets in Excel. And salespeople live in Salesforce. (Okay, and email too). It’s just a little easier for everyday users, and Egnyte is now able to say it has a native Office integration right up there with Box — now a publicly traded company — when it comes to support for the Microsoft workflow. Egnyte already has a Google Drive integration.
Backed by Google Ventures and others, Egnyte last announced funding in December 2013.
 Customers include Bloom Energy, Home Depot, and Ikea.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
