Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft releases Halo 5: Guardians action-packed opening cinematic Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Halo 5: Guardians Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Microsoft and 343 Industries have released the opening cinematic for Halo 5: Guardians.
Halo 5 is Microsoft’s biggest effort yet to lure gamers to the Xbox One video game console, which still trails behind Sony’s PlayStation 4 in worldwide sales. Since 2001, the Halo series has sold more than 60 million units, generating billions of dollars in revenue. And it isn’t running out of steam yet.
Tonight, Microsoft released the opening cinematic, which starts out with Spartan Jameson Locke and his Fireteam Osiris. They’re called upon by the UNSC to recover a high-value target, Catherine Elizabeth Halsey, the creator of the Spartan warrior program. She’s in custody and claims to have information on some recent atrocities. The team descends skydiving-style on a planet with a hot landing zone full of Covenant and Promethean enemies. Microsoft describes the scene as the start “to the most ambitious, robust, and epic Halo campaign experience yet.” Feast your eyes on this action. Halo 5 comes out on the Xbox One video game console on October 27.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The cinematic was directed by 343 Industries and created in collaboration with some of the video game industry’s leading creative talent, such as Axis Animation, Profile Studios, and Warner Bros.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
