Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages New Xbox One Elite bundle comes with a console first: a fast hybrid solid-state drive Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Xbox One Elite bundle.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
If you’ve waited to get an Xbox One, then the gods of patience have a reward for you.
Microsoft revealed a new Xbox One bundle today. It comes with the system, a 1 TB hybrid drive, and the Xbox Elite controller.
 It does not come with a Kinect. It’ll retail for $500 when it comes out exclusively for GameStop and MicrosoftStore.com on Nov. 3.
A hybrid drive will work faster than the HDD that Xbox One’s have had before this. However, it is not an SSD (solid state drive, known for its speed and durability). Instead, it’s a mix between the two, containing a spinning disk similar to an HDD but also flash memory, which will allow many programs and functions to load faster. Previous Xbox One bundles have come with a 500 GB HDD.
The Xbox One Elite controller has an interchangeable D-pad, hair-trigger locks, and removable paddle buttons on the back. It’ll sell for $150 alone when it comes out on Oct. 27. A standard Xbox One controller costs $60.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
