Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nintendo is releasing the slimmer New 3DS (non-XL) in the U.S. this fall Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The New 3DS is finally coming to U.S. gamers.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Nintendo will finally release the New 3DS for those of us who prefer skin-tight slacks. Yes, that is a 3DS in my yoga pants, but I’m also happy to see you.
The New Nintendo 3DS will launch in the U.S. on September 25 in a bundle with the upcoming Animal Crossing: Happy Home Designer for $220. This version of the New 3DS comes with all the new features that the New 3DS XL launched with in February but it is smaller and features removable face plates. This bundle will come with Animal Crossing-themed face plates, but Nintendo will also ship a variety of different designs that you can deck out your new handheld with.
This isn’t the only revamped 3DS hitting the market in time for the gift-giving holidays. Nintendo revealed it is partnering with GameStop to release a Hyrule Edition New 3DS XL for $200 on October 30. That is timed to hit simultaneously with The Legend of Zelda: Tri Force Heroes, which is sold separately.
Of course, this news is primarily exciting for U.S. gamers since the standard New 3DS came out in every other major market outside of North America. Europe, Japan, and Austrlia got the New 3DS XL and the New 3DS at the exact same time. But Nintendo only went with the bigger system in America and the surrounding territories.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Holding off on releasing the New 3DS, however, means that Nintendo can time this upcoming release to give the system a boost through the holidays. The handheld has already sold very well throughout this year, but this will help it finish strong.
“More than 15 million systems in the Nintendo 3DS family have been sold in the U.S. alone,” Nintendo marketing chief Scott Moffitt said in a canned statement. “These new models offer additional fun ways to experience some of the great upcoming Nintendo 3DS games launching in the next few months.” We’ve asked Nintendo if it plans to sell the standard New 3DS as a standalone product outside of a bundle, and we’ll update this post with any comment from the publisher.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
