Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nintendo isn’t saying if it’ll sell the smaller New 3DS as a standalone unit Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The packaging for the black New 3DS in Japan.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The non-XL New 3DS is coming to North America, but you can only get it if you’re willing to spend a little bit extra.
Nintendo announced earlier today that it is finally bringing the smaller New 3DS to the United States and Canada, but that came with an important caveat: You have to buy the New 3DS Animal Crossing: Happy Home Designer bundle for $220 to get the system. That’s $20 more than buying a New 3DS XL without a game.
Naturally, the announcement led to many people wondering if Nintendo has plans to release a version of the New 3DS without a game. We got in touch with the company’s public-relations firm and asked it point-blank if we should expect a less expensive New 3DS sans a pack-in.
Here is Nintendo’s response: “We have nothing to announce on this topic.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! So, that isn’t helpful, but at least it isn’t a “no.” Obviously, Nintendo wants to use the pent-up demand for the smaller New 3DS in North America to help move copies of the new Animal Crossing. And that makes sense. Animal Crossing is a popular franchise, but it does even better once it catches on with social media and Tumblr blogs. It’s that kind of game, and packing it in with the freshest, hottest 3DS is one way to guarantee a significant number of people get their hands on the game.
Maybe once we get past the Animal Crossing launch Nintendo will launch the New 3DS on its own, but for now, let’s design some happy homes.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
