Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Smartwatch game developer Everywear closes $2.25M funding round Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Runeblade on Apple Watch.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Smartwatches are probably here to stay, and one of the first game developers dedicated to this new platform is getting an injection of cash to make the next generation of wearable entertainment.
Everywear Games, which produced the Apple Watch-optimized app Runeblade , has raised $2.25 million (2 million euros) in seed funding. Silicon Valley capital firm True Ventures led the round with participation from fellow investment organizations Lifeline and Sunstone. Everywear intends to use this money to push forward with more games designed specifically for Apple and Android smartwatches. It’s one of a number of companies that is trying to get in early with wearable games with the expectations that consumers with smartwatches will generate spending on a level that is comparable to phone and tablet apps.
This funding comes as the Apple Watch has blown past the sales of its competitors. While many claim that the wearable isn’t as successful as some other Apple products, the device has seemingly proven the market for computers you keep on your wrist all day. And that has obviously given True Ventures and the other investment companies the confidence to make a bet on this software sector moving forward.
True Ventures partner Om Malik, who is joining Everywear’s board as part of this deal, explained that he was convinced once he saw the company’s Runeblade smartwatch game.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “It was clear to me they understood what kind of entertainment works on a smartwatch,” said Malik in a canned statement.
Now, with funding and a growing market, Everywear will have to prove that smartwatches can support the kind of dedicated gaming and spending that has made the mobile gaming industry so lucrative.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
