Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple reportedly exploring creation of original video content Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Apple is seriously looking into becoming a video content creator in the way that Netflix and Amazon are.
A Variety report cites unnamed sources as saying that Apple “has held preliminary conversations in recent weeks with executives in Hollywood to suss out their interest in spearheading efforts to produce entertainment content.” The report says that the business unit exploring the options reports to Apple’s Eddy Cue, who spearheads all of Apple’s content efforts.
Variety says one source who had talked to Apple said the Cupertino, Calif.-based giant is looking to create development and production divisions within the company that would focus on acquiring, or even creating, original content.
This, of course, would put Apple in head-to-head competition with Netflix and Amazon.
Apple has gone in a similar “original content” direction in music. Around the launch of its Apple Music subscription service, Apple increasingly began to resemble a record label.
Reports said Apple is producing music videos for people like M.I.A. and Drake.
Another report pointed to a new Apple job listing for a music video producer.
Making TV shows is a whole new ball game, however, and a labor-intensive one. The Variety report might reignite the question of just how many circles Apple can move in without being stretched too thin.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
