Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages New leaked images show next-generation Moto 360 Sport watches Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
A reliable leaker posted some new photos of the next generation of Moto 360 Android smartwatch, notably some nice-looking Sport models.
Here is the Sport edition, featuring what looks like a sweat-resistant plastic band: The tweet also shows the next-generation 360 in a variety of new colors, and with leather and metal watchbands: There’s no official word yet on whether the next-generation Moto 360 watches will be compatible with iPhones , although I’d be quite surprised if they weren’t.
The Moto 360, which was released shortly after the announcement of the Android Wear operating system, was arguably the first smartwatch to get some traction with consumers — largely because of its round shape.
But that was before the launch of the Apple Watch. Motorola and other Android smartwatch makers are now under pressure to announce next-generation smartwatches that can compete.
Hat tip: Gizmodo VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
