Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google+ brings Collections to its iOS app in latest update Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Social network Google+ is bringing its recently launched feature called Collections to iOS starting today.
Launched in May , Collections functions similarly to Pinterest pin boards. Google+ users can create “a collection” around a certain topic and then use it to post relevant content like pictures, videos, photos, events, and polls. For example, you could create a Collection around rock climbing where you post videos of mountains you’ve climbed or pictures of pitches you’re scoping out. Collections are searchable, and Google also provides a feed of featured Collections to help users discover new content.
The iOS version of Collections will also be searchable, though users will have control over who can and cannot view their Collections.
Google+ has had trouble gaining substantial footing as a social network. Though it boasts 2.2 billion users, independent data analysis indicates that only a small percentage of those accounts is active. While Facebook’s iOS app ranks number two among all iPhone apps in the U.S., Google+ doesn’t make the top 200, according to App Annie.
 Perhaps in acknowledgement that its social network isn’t working, in July the company said Google+ will no longer act as a user’s identity across all Google products.
Despite low traction, Google continues to build its social network in the hopes that one of its features will meaningfully stoke engagement. You can check out the latest version of Google+ on iOS here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
