Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Meerkat now lets you poll viewers, search by hashtags, and share photos from your camera roll Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Meerkat has introduced polls for viewers on iOS and Android.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Live streaming app Meerkat today rolled out a bunch of new features, including the ability to share pictures from your phone’s camera roll during a stream and to search all streams by hashtag.
And now it’s easy for people streaming live to poll people who are watching.
“That means you can write, ‘poll, space,’ and then whatever question you want,” said Meerkat cofounder and chief executive Ben Rubin during a Meerkat stream in which he announced the news.
Poll: Do you believe in love? Streamers can now Poll the audience by asking a Q in the comments! @LizaDixon #MeerPoll pic.twitter.com/Aq0jvHZ4sh — Meerkat (@AppMeerkat) September 1, 2015 https://twitter.com/AppMeerkat/status/638512838802194432 The updates, including the “Show & Tell” photo-sharing feature, are now live on iOS and Android. A Medium post on the news is here.
Live streaming apps like Meerkat and Periscope have become popular in recent months.
 Now people making streams can do more to create a special live experience for any friends, family members, and even strangers who are watching.
Above: I would Meerkat the crap out of this if I saw it in real life.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
