Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release CardLinx Launches Online System to Connect Merchants, Card-Linked Companies and Digital Publishers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn SAN FRANCISCO–(BUSINESS WIRE)–September 30, 2015– The CardLinx Association today announced the availability of a new online system enabling merchants and their card-linked technology partners to share their card-linked offers with digital advertising publishers. Card-linking enables consumers to link their existing credit or debit cards to digital coupons, loyalty programs or mobile wallets. Consumers then simply pay with their registered card or mobile phone and no paper coupon, promo code or QR code is needed to get the discount or loyalty benefit.
As consumer demand for card-linked offers has grown, digital publishers have often found it cumbersome to consistently source high quality merchant card-linked offers. Merchants and retailers have also found it difficult to find the broadest possible audience for their card-linked offers and card-linked loyalty programs. The CardLinx Listing Information Monitor eCenter or “CLIMe” solves these problems by providing a central online platform for merchants and their card-linked technology partners to publish the availability of their card-linked offers to large-scale digital publishers and payment card issuers.
“CLIMe brings card-linked offers and loyalty programs to a wider audience as digital publishers will now be able to easily locate the best merchant card-linked offers to provide to consumers,” said CardLinx President and CEO, Silvio Tavares.
“Consumer awareness and acceptance of card-linked offers is nearing a tipping point and CLIMe is just what the industry needs to increase collaboration among card-linked technology companies, merchants and large scale digital publishers to further accelerate market growth,” added Alex Johnson, senior analyst at Mercator Advisory Group.
The creation of CLIMe is an example of how The CardLinx Association listens to its members and addresses challenges within the card-linking industry with practical standards and solutions that lead to increased growth. The CLIMe “Beta” system will be available to all CardLinx Association members effective October 5, 2015.
For retailers and card-linked technology providers interested in learning more, CardLinx’s 3 rd Annual Merchant Advisory Council will be held on October 28, 2015 in Las Vegas at the Wynn Las Vegas. To register, go to: http://cardlinx.org/merchant-advisory-council Membership in The CardLinx Association is open to all financial institutions, publishers, advertisers and merchants, merchant acquirers, payment networks and offer technology companies. Companies interested in joining the association should visit http://www.cardlinx.org.
About The CardLinx Association The mission of the non-profit CardLinx Association is to establish increased interoperability, eliminate friction and promote the growth of the card-linked offers industry. On behalf of its members, the Association develops and institutes common standards and industry services to minimize and eliminate friction in the sourcing, serving, publishing, redeeming, and cross syndicating of card-linked offers and loyalty programs. For more information visit www.cardlinx.org.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
