Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Foursquare says your check-ins will now save kittens Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Foursquare said on Wednesday that it’s teaming up with Alley Cat Rescue for the next two weeks to save stray cats — by making a donation each time a user checks in to a location on Swarm , though it didn’t specify how much it would donate for each check-in.
For those not super familiar with the app, Swarm “lets users earn prizes and compete with friends based on the places you go.” And there’s a fun prize involved in the campaign, too. Up for grabs is a limited edition Grumpy Cat sticker that can be unlocked until October 15.
“To help us save as many kittens as possible, we’ve partnered with everyone’s favorite cat celebrity, Grumpy Cat ,” Foursquare said. “Turn that frown upside down by unlocking our limited edition Grumpy Cat sticker. Show off your support and spread the word by sharing your check-ins to Twitter or Facebook using the hashtag #EveryCheckInSavesAKitten.” Foursquare recently made it easier for users to book restaurants through OpenTable , and attempted to predict how many iPhone 6s models Apple would sell in its first weekend. The service now claims 60 million registered users (50 million are monthly active users), and 75 million tips to date.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
