Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Divinity: Original Sin II Kickstarter ends with over $2M pledged Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn It's back.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
People still have plenty of money to give to video game-based crowdfunding.
The Kickstarter campaign for the PC role-playing game Divinity: Original Sin II ended today with $2,032,434 pledged. That’s more than twice the $944,282 amount the original earned, showing that fans are more than happy to crowdfund a sequel to a game they already helped get made, as long as the original was good and it comes from a studio with a track record of getting the game finished.
This is in contrast with other Kickstarted gamed that have problems releasing in a timely manner. Mighty No. 9, for instance, recently frustrated fans by delaying its release to next year (and then delaying a beta that was supposed to make up for the extra wait), even as developer Comcept tried ( and failed ) to fund a new game. Divinity: Original Sin developer Larian still has the trust of its fans.
The $2,032,434 was well over the original $500,000 goal. The extra money will go toward adding extra modes and dedicated mod support.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
