Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Super Smash Bros. gets two new DLC stages: Wind Waker and Super Mario Maker Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Your perfectly manicured hands can now place mid-level checkpoints.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Nintendo finally seems to understand that people want to buy a lot of new content for its games.
The Japanese company made two stages available for download today for its crossover fighting game, Super Smash Bros. The Wii U versions gets Pirate Ship, a level based on The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker. This stage originally debuted on Super Smash Bros. Brawl for the Wii. Both the Wii U and 3DS versions get a level based on Super Mario Maker, the recently released ( and well-selling ) level-designing game. This downloadable content comes almost a year after this newest version of Smash Bros. launched, showing that Nintendo isn’t slowing down with releasing new goodies.
Pirate Ship costs $2, while Super Mario Maker is $2.50 for Wii U or 3DS. However, you can pay $3.50 for both versions.
A new update released today for Super Smash Bros. also brings balance changes to the roster. Nintendo never releases patch notes itself, but the community is already putting together its own list of changes.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
