Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages The worst thing about Tony Hawk Pro Skater 5 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn I hope you have a lot of free time because you'll need it.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
I’m a few hours into play Tony Hawk Pro Skater 5, and I already don’t like a lot of things about it. But one problem rises above the rest and is emblematic of the many other issues.
It takes 10 seconds to retry a mission in Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater 5. If you’re unfamiliar with the series, that’s an eternity. This franchise has always put a ton of emphasis on getting the one perfect run to reach that super-high score. That’s only possible if you get off to a good start, which means you’re going to want to try to retry a ton. In older Tony Hawk games, retrying took less than a second. You hit a button, the screen would flash white, and you’d get to start all over fresh from the beginning.
Putting a 10 second wait time between runs completely ruins the pacing and rhythm of Tony Hawk. I dread certain missions that I know will require me to restart a lot because I’m probably going to spend more time waiting for the damn game to load than I will spend playing it.
It takes a full 10 seconds to retry a THPS5 mission. That's craaaaazy.
https://t.co/RC7QDZshVb pic.twitter.com/plSsi0Yp9d — Jeffrey Grubb (@JeffGrubb) September 30, 2015 Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! And like I said, this is emblematic of many other dumb choices developer Robomodo (which previously worked on the Ride, Shred, and HD entries in the THPS series) made.
The reason you have to wait 10 seconds is because the game is loading a new online instance for you on the online servers. It does this every time — even when you’re playing alone! I have no idea why I would need the server to spool up a multiplayer session when I’m on my own and under no threat of having a friend join me. Hell, some of these missions specifically do not have the option to play cooperatively, but you still have to wait for the Robomodo backend before you can do anything.
It all makes for a depressing, slow, and unacceptable Tony Hawk experience.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
