Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google is about to change your default avatar image Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Say goodbye to those anonymous-looking blue circles.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Google today announced that it will begin changing up the default avatar for Google Account holders who have signed up for Google+.
The anonymous-looking blue circle with the slightly darker blue head and body that has sat in the top right corner of Gmail, Google search, Google calendar, and Google Drive (for those who have never customized their avatars) will be replaced by a colored circle and, most likely, a first or last initial.
Above: The new look for the default avatar for Google Accounts.
“In some cases where initials are not available, a color alone will be used,” Google said in a blog post on the news, adding that the change will start rolling out this week.
This is yet another vestige of Google+ that is being rinsed away as the company evolves. Other Google+ relics that have been removed in recent months include Google+ account links in Gmail and search results and the requirement to have a Google+ account when using Google services.
What do you think of your new default avatar? VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
