Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google sued by express delivery driver seeking wages Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Shopping Express, making a delivery in LA.
(By Dan Levine, Reuters) – A driver for Google’s same day delivery service filed a proposed class action lawsuit against the company on Friday, alleging it improperly classified her as an independent contractor and owes expenses.
The case, filed in a Massachusetts state court, comes days after Amazon Prime Now drivers filed a similar lawsuit against Amazon.com in California.
The level of benefits owed to workers in the on-demand economy has been the subject of litigation in the courts, and debate in the U.S. presidential race.
Like drivers in the Amazon case, Google Express driver Anna Coorey said in her lawsuit that she was hired by an intermediary courier service but is required to work only for Google during her shift. Drivers wear Google Express uniforms and are required to accept every delivery assigned to them during each shift, the lawsuit said.
That makes drivers employees under Massachusetts state law, attorneys for Coorey argue, who should be paid overtime and other expenses.
A Google spokesman could not immediately comment on the lawsuit.
Ride services Uber and Lyft face similar lawsuits from drivers, brought by the same law firm which filed the case against Google on Friday.
The case in Suffolk County Superior Court is Anna Coorey vs. Google Inc and Beavex Inc.
(Reporting by Dan Levine; Editing by Alan Crosby) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
