Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Snapchat’s Sponsored Lenses debuts on Halloween, overlaying ad content on selfies Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Last month, Snapchat launched its new Lens feature to the delight of children around the world (they can now make their selfie vomit rainbows), but now it’s time to start paying the tab.
How? Advertising, of course. Tomorrow, on Halloween, promotional content for Fox’s upcoming Peanuts movie will start showing up over selfies shot in Snapchat.
The Financial Times reported earlier in the month that advertisers will pay up to $750,000 to reach Snapchat’s entire audience with such sponsored lenses during key times like Halloween, Thanksgiving, or Black Friday.
In Snapchat, users can snap a selfie photo, then press and hold on the screen to bring up a menu of lenses. They can also play around with the various lenses, modifying them before they snap a selfie. Now Peanuts movie lenses will be among the choices.
Fox also bought sponsored Geofilters — special overlays for “snaps” that can only be accessed in certain locations.
Sponsored Lens is among the first few attempts by Snapchat to start making bank off its huge audience. So far, advertisers are reporting broad reach on the platform, especially to the highly coveted 18- to 34-year-old millennial crowd.
In September, Snapchat announced its first in-app purchase, offering users the chance to replay old snaps for 99 cents, though some users blanched at the idea of having to pay to see their own content again.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
