Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google just dropped a meet-up app called Who’s Down Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
To kick off Halloween weekend, Google just released a new social app called Who’s Down.
The invite-only app appeared in both the Google Play and Apple App Store today. Who’s Down lets users see when friends are available and indicate that they’re also around to hang out. Here’s Google’s tagline for the new app: Who’s Down : always know who is free to hang out, so you never miss out on the fun.
According to screen shots, Who’s Down has a sliding button that users can switch on or off to indicate whether or not they’re around. Once you slide the button on, Who’s Down will show you as available for three hours, according to images. It appears users can also say what activity they’re down for.
Google has tried for a long time to develop a social app, but earlier efforts (like Google Plus) have failed to take hold. An app that preys on people’s fear of missing out could have just the mechanism it needs to attract users. When I requested an invite, Google asked me what school I attend, so it’s safe to say this app is geared for students.
For now, Google isn’t sharing details, but the company did direct me to the new home page for the app, which you can check out here.
Hat tip 9to5Google VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
