Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter now lets anyone tweet a poll Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Starting today, any Twitter user will be able to poll their followers. As is characteristic, CEO Jack Dorsey announced the update in a tweet.
https://twitter.com/jack/status/660189035403460608/photo/1 Polls will be available on Twitter’s web app as well as in Android and iOS apps.
The company first announced its polling feature a little over a week ago and made it available to a select few. Now, all users will be able to ask their followers a question and give them two answers to choose from. The polling feature appears at the bottom of the window used to a compose a tweet, among other media options.
The social feed has toyed with polls before, working with companies and media outlets to create polls for special events. Users have also been able to tweet a question and tally responses. The new polling feature makes this process easier, of course, and offers broader reach. It also gives users one more way to engage with the platform, something Twitter is eager to see happen.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
