Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Aroma Bit, Japan’s aroma sensing technology startup, adds two big-name advisors Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn ( The Bridge ) – Tokyo-based Aroma Bit, a Japanese startup developing a small-sized aroma sensor device, recently announced that it has appointed Batara Eto as an advisor and Atsushi Tanaka as a mentor.
Eto is the former CTO of Japanese gaming company of Mixi (TSE:2121) as well as the co-founder and managing partner of East Ventures. We were also told that East Ventures has invested an undisclosed sum in Aroma Bit.
Above: Aroma Bit’s QCM elements Tanaka is the former CFO of Japanese mobile company EMobile (acquired by Softbank in 2014) as well as the CEO of Tokyo-based JTOWER , a company focused on installing cellphone signal boosters in buildings to help mobile operators reduce the dead zones of their coverage.
Since its launch back in February 2014, Aomabit has been focused on developing a sensor visualizing the aroma and fragrance features. Quartz Crystal Modulator (QCM), their small-sized sensor, enables the visual expression of aromas, allowing users to ‘see’ scent differences between coffee, café latte, and honey latte, for example.
According to Aroma Bit CEO Shunichiro Kuroki, his company has been receiving many business inquiries from food, consumer electronics, automobile, and environmental businesses, where the quality check of their products typically relies on people’s nose but can be replaced with this sensing technology.
Translated by Taijiro Takeda, e dited by Masaru Ikeda VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
