Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Gemio’s smart friendship bracelets can recognize a ‘high five’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Gemio has bracelets that send messages with flashing lights.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Gemio is now accepting preorders for its high-tech friendship bracelets, which represent the latest in connected wearable devices.
The smart jewelry combines self-expression with the ability to connect with friends in-person. It uses networking technology to connect people, lighting up when friends are nearby.
Seattle-based Gemio has created interchangeable “Gemsets” that can be snapped on and off. The Gemsets are backlit by a palette of millions of colors of light and special effects. That lets you create a new look every time you wear them.
“We felt it was time to update the timeless tradition of friendship bracelets by using technology to add new layers of meaning and connection, while still preserving its personal and symbolic value,” said Michael Bettua, CEO and cofounder of Gemio, in a statement.
The social bracelet uses Bluetooth connectivity, an accelerometer and a gyro for motion detection, and light-emitting diodes (LED) to connect to a smartphone and then create connections between friends.
Above: Gemio’s colorful bracelets can connect to friends’ bracelets via Bluetooth.
“Light is becoming an integral part of fashion design,” said Christy Saito, vice president of product and merchandising at Gemio, in a statement. “We have created the first wearable to bring it off the runway and onto people’s wrists.” Gemio lights up when your friends are nearby, and plays a signature “light tone” (a personalized ringtone). You can also use the LEDs as a form of chat, by using light signals. It recognizes gestures (such as a ‘high five’) and allows users to assign light effects to them. You can wave hello, and Gemio can play a light show. Or, thanks to the motion detectors, you can twist your wrist to make the bracelet sparkle.
The bracelets can also do color and music matching. If you point the bracelet at a blue shirt, it will change the backlighting on the Gemset to match the color. You can wear it at a concert or party, and it will flash to the beat of the music.
You can control the appearance of Gemio and its functions from the bracelet or by using the MyGemio App. Gemio is available for pre-order at www.gogemio.com. Bracelets start at $80 and swappable Gemsets start at $20. The bracelets are expected to ship in the second quarter of 2016.
Gemio was founded in 2014. Its backers include Tricia Black, who was the first vice president of sales at Facebook.
Above: Gemio bracelets have flashing LEDs.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
