Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google will retire Chrome support for 32-bit Linux, Ubuntu Precise, and Debian 7 in March 2016 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google today announced it is ending Chrome support for 32-bit Linux, Ubuntu Precise (12.04), and Debian 7 (wheezy) in early March 2016. The company didn’t elaborate, aside from saying the move would help “to provide the best experience for the most-used Linux versions.” This means Google will provide regular Chrome updates and security patches for users on these operating systems for fewer than four more months. After that, the browser will still work, but it will be stuck on the last version released in March.
Earlier this month, Google announced it was dropping Chrome support for Windows XP, Windows Vista, OS X 10.6, OS X 10.7, and OS X 10.8 in April 2016. In other words, today’s news just rounds out the cleanup to Chrome’s remaining desktop platform, Linux.
That said, if you’re a hardcore Linux user, there will be options. “We intend to continue supporting the 32-bit build configurations on Linux to support building Chromium,” Google explained. “If you are using Precise, we’d recommend that you to upgrade to Trusty.” If Chromium, the open-source browser from which Google Chrome draws its source code, doesn’t interest you, there are plenty of other browsers for Linux. The most popular alternative is, of course, Mozilla’s Firefox, which is your best bet if you’re looking for a browser that supports multiple platforms.
Google is, of course, making development of its browser easier by dropping support for older and less-popular operating systems. At the same time, the company is giving users of these operating systems yet another reason to upgrade.
If your hardware allows it, you should move up to a 64-bit version of Linux. Similarly, the latest release of Ubuntu is 15.10 Wily Werewolf, and Debian is on version 8, code-named Jessie.
If your hardware doesn’t allow it, you’ll simply have to upgrade if you want to keep using Chrome.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
