Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages The number of women in tech is increasing, but issues remain Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The number of women in tech is increasing, according to the latest edition of Propel’s Digital Salary & Industry Insights report.
Female responders to the sixth edition of the report doubled to 22% compared to last year, illustrating that tech has become more inclusive according to Melina Jacovou, CEO & founder of Propel.
“Tech is becoming more sexy, trendy, accessible and perceptions have changed,” she said. “It’s no longer considered a masculine industry – it’s inclusive.
“Companies’ tech requirements are growing with the landscape changing. Companies are providing flexible working environments and offering more value in the workplace.” However the number of women in tech is still far below the other sectors surveyed in the report.
The report also shows that tech staff are more likely to seek a new role than staff in the other sectors surveyed, with 57% saying they were planning to find alternative employment. In fact 79% of those who had been in their role for two-five years were looking for another job. The lack of career development opportunities was cited as the main reason for this.
“Tech professionals need to constantly challenge and be challenged,” Jacovou said. “Often they are more interested in the tech than the money and have a hunger for challenges and self-development.
“They are focussed on what they can achieve, their footprint and their legacy. There isn’t such a thing as a job for life anymore. We are all contracted and need to be inspired!” The latest edition of Propel’s Digital Salary & Industry Insights report delves into the working lives of the professionals who drive the global digital economy.
The report’s analysis focuses on four key talent areas – marketing, commercial, creative services and technology – looking at salaries, sector skill sets, levels of satisfaction and role perceptions within the global digital economy, namely: Direct influences – demographic variables (age, gender, seniority, job title and salary); Behavioural variables – career level, years in industry, skill; and Deduced influences – job satisfaction, attitudes, lifestyle, and career patterns.
View the full report.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
