Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Target goes down for some on Cyber Monday Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Cyber Monday is giving Target.com some trouble.
High traffic volumes are rendering the site unavailable for some customers. Unlucky shoppers will be faced with this message when attempting to go to Target.com : A Target representative said the company is “metering” traffic in order to keep the site from crashing.
Both traffic and order volumes are exceeding Target’s Thursday Black Friday event, which was our biggest day ever for online sales. To help manage the volume, we have been metering traffic to the site. We have teams working diligently to restore Target.com to full functionality.
Both the company’s U.S. and international site are affected, so even consumers who aren’t scouring the Web for special deals might be restricted from shopping.
Target isn’t the first retailer to have difficulty keeping high traffic from sending the site offline. On Black Friday, websites for Newegg and Neiman Marcus were unavailable for a period of time.
Digital sales for Thanksgiving and Black Friday were up this year, according to Hooklogic, a company that measures sales statistics for retailers including Walmart, Target, Best Buy, Toys ‘R Us, Macy’s, and others. In fact, one study shows that for the first time ever on Black Friday an equal number of people shopped offline as did online.
Online shoppers spent roughly $4.45 billion on Thanksgiving and Black Friday, according to Adobe.
 Cyber Monday may bring in even more ecommerce sales this season.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
