Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter WIRED Staff Gear Wish List 2018: 48 Gift Ideas That Everyone Will Connect With Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED $3,398 at Vanmoof $19 at Princeton Architectural Press $200 at BioLite $16,500 at Leica Joseph Shin 01 VanMoof Electrified S2 Vanmoof banishes bulky batteries by hiding a 504-watt-hour cell inside this ebike’s 42-pound frame. The front-wheel motor has a city-shrinking 93-mile range, can pump out 500 hill-killing watts, and will hit 20 mph. Even if some knucklehead conquers the built-in lock, a GPS tracker will help you (well, the cops) recover your steed.
$3,398 at Vanmoof Joseph Shin; Night Sky card set courtesy of papress.com 02 The Night Sky Postcard Set Perhaps the best gift is a gentle reminder of how tiny we are in the universe. Each postcard in this set of 50 features an image of the cosmos, from ancient star maps to NASA archival photos, like Apollo 16’s shot of the far side of the moon. Pin them up for inspiration, or buy some stamps (remember those?) and mail them to distant stargazers.
$19 at Princeton Architectural Press Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 03 BioLite FirePit How do real campers tame fire? With Bluetooth! Ignite your fuel (charcoal or dead trees) in the FirePit’s mesh body, then dial the flames up or down in the app, which controls 51 teeny air jets in the burn chamber. In addition to stoking the fire, the jets keep the smoke in check. The rechargeable power pack is good for up to 24 hours of computer-controlled burn.
$200 at BioLite Joseph Shin 04 Leica L2 Cameras and watches share mechanical DNA, which Leica is celebrating with its new line of timepieces. Assembled at the company’s Leitz-Park campus, this 41-mm manual watch ticks for 60 hours between windings and features a jet-setter-friendly GMT complication. The brushed steel L2 even sports Leica’s iconic red dot on its crown.
$16,500 at Leica Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 05 Playtime Engineering Blipblox Blipblox might be designed for DJs ages 3 and up, but this is no rinky-dink xylophone. The easy-to-use synthesizer has pro-ready features like MIDI support, multiple modulation filters, and an integrated drum machine. So your tot can mix beats before bedtime, then you can “borrow” it for your own midnight set.
$189 at Playtime Engineering Photograph: Joseph Shin 06 Kano Harry Potter Coding Kit Skip the trip to Ollivanders and pick up this coding wand instead. The Kano app for tablets and computers gives Hogwarts hopefuls step-by-step instructions to build JavaScript routines. A wave of the wand casts an enchanting onscreen spell to levitate a feather, play a ghostly harp, or float a butterbeer.
$100 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 07 Apple Watch Series 4 The latest Apple Watch is an upgrade over the last version in almost every way, with a display that’s 30 percent larger and a new sensor array that can perform an electrocardiogram to spot an irregular ticker. Just remember, you’ll need an iPhone to use the thing.
$399 at Apple Joseph Shin 08 Firewire Surfboards Go Fish With shapes optimized by computational fluid-dynamics software, Firewire’s surfboards would be a blast to ride even if they didn’t meet the eco-friendly standards set by Sustainable Surf’s Ecoboard program. This versatile keel-fin fish is meant to tackle midsize waves and keep the ocean a little bit cleaner along the way.
$765 at Firewire Surfboards Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 09 HamiltonBuhl STEAM Robo-Arm Kit for Arduino Tireless, indestructible—every kid wants to be part robot. Now your offspring can live the cyber dream. This programmable arm has grippers with treads to help grasp objects. Your budding engineer can teach it up to 100 movements as they learn coding, automation, and the basics of its Arduino brain.
$184 at Jet Joseph Shin; Shark Kinetic Toy Kit courtesy of artofplay.com 10 Heavy Eyes Shark Kinetic Toy Kit This flat-pack sculpture kit is a crafty take on the bloodthirsty terror of Amity Island. Bend the 16 vinyl flaps, secure them with the included screw-pegs, and a 14-inch great white slowly emerges. Gently wiggle the assembled elasmobranch to admire the serene swing of its tail.
$25 at Art of Play Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 11 Tile Pro Attach one of these wireless trackers to anything you might lose—wallet, phone, remote, dog—and see its last known location in the app or make it chirp audibly so the precious is easier to find. The newly updated Tile Pro has an extended range of 300 feet and runs on replaceable coin cell batteries that last at least a year.
$35 at Tile Photograph: Joseph Shin 12 Microsoft Xbox Design Lab Controller You wouldn’t play Fallout without carefully crafting your character. Xbox Design Lab lets you give the same bespoke attention to your controller. Choose from a variety of colors and finishes for the body of the controller. If you’re feeling extra proud, you can get your gamertag stamped on the front.
$70 at Microsoft Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 13 Roland Aerophone Go Learn a new wind or reed instrument, minus all the skronking. Finger the keys of Roland’s digital horn to draw out the simulated tones of 11 instruments, including flute, clarinet, and four types of sax. Unlock 50 more sounds— from bagpipes to strings—in the app. Practicing late at night? Plug in headphones to jam in private.
$500 at Amazon Photograph: Joseph Shin 14 Amazon Echo Sub Amazon’s Echo speakers are fun to chat with, but they don’t really get down. The Echo Sub is here to help and will pump a lot more bass into Alexa’s DJ sets. The 6-inch downward-firing speaker, powered by a 100-watt onboard amp, wirelessly pairs with an Echo or Echo Plus speaker—or two of the same Echo devices for stereo sound.
$130 at Amazon $130 at Best Buy Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 15 "The Game Console" Evan Amos Gaming obsessives will love Evan Amos’ historical book, which offers vividly detailed exploded views of every canonical console from the Magnavox Odyssey to the Nintendo Wii. It’s the next-best thing to taking apart vintage machines yourself, and it looks much nicer on your coffee table.
$25 at Amazon Joseph Shin 16 Petronics Mousr Your cat thinks it’s so smart. Let’s see if it can outwit a semi-sentient toy. The sensors in this “mouse” detect your cat’s movements so it can react accordingly, flicking its tail or scurrying to and fro. With three levels of robotic excitability, an app-controlled mode, and 10 swappable tail types, your clawed menace will never get bored.
$150 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 17 Salt + Aether Voyage A collaboration between eyewear designer Salt Optics and outdoor clothing outfit Aether Apparel, these shades are handmade in Japan, with polarized, photochromic lenses, light titanium frames, and wind-blocking silicone side shields. Like James Bond, they’re meant to tackle adventure and look sharp peering over a martini.
$650 at Salt Optics Joseph Shin 18 Facebook Portal+ A Facebook device with a camera on it? We hear you—but the Portal+ makes video chat so delightful, you might be won over. The AI-powered camera software zooms in to tightly frame whoever’s speaking. And it comes with a privacy cap you can snap over the lens when you don’t want Mark Zuckerberg to see what you’re up to.
$350 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 19 AGV X3000 Ago Helmet The new Legends helmet series from AGV replicates the designs of brain buckets worn by Moto GP superstars like Giacomo Agostini and Renzo Pasolini. The Agostini helmet’s old-school style is matched with modern safety and comfort features, such as sturdy double D-ring fasteners and machine-washable padding.
$700 at AGV Joseph Shin 20 Symbol Audio Modern Record Player If you want to enjoy the past while living in the present, give this record player a spin. Its audiophile-grade turntable sits atop a case housing a 25-watt-per-channel amp and a trio of speakers. When it’s time to go digital, there’s a compartment for hiding a Chromecast, Airport Express, or Sonos Connect.
$3,295 at Symbol Audio Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 21 Lomography Sprocket Rocket Teal 2.0 This funky camera is an unexpected treat for the photographer who has everything. It shoots wide panoramic images across multiple frames of 35-mm film, exposing the whole surface, even around the sprocket holes. Toss in some rolls of Lomochrome Purple film and they’ll be snapping artsy panos for weeks.
$69 at Lomography Joseph Shin 22 Blu Dot Filter Table Lamp Most table lamps fade into your decor, but Blu Dot’s light leaves an impression. Instead of a simple shade, it uses perforated, powder-coated steel plates on either side to diffuse and soften the shine. It comes in four eye-catching colors, and the cloth cord includes a mood-altering dimmer switch.
$299 at Blu Dot Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 23 Laowa Macroprobe Surprise the inquisitive photographer in your life with a clever macro device for their DSLR. Designed to capture close-ups of tiny subjects, this 24-mm, f/14 lens has a waterproof barrel and built-in LEDs that lets them snap portraits of insects or ambush fish in a stream, unlocking an exciting new world for exploration.
$1,500 at Adorama Joseph Shin 24 Master & Dynamic MW07 These new wireless buds from Master & Dynamic have a striking acetate finish and the sound to match, with high-performance beryllium drivers and wings that help fasten them to your ears to form a bass-optimizing seal. Battery life is solid too—good for 3.5 hours of rocking between visits to the charging case.
$299 at Master & Dynamic Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 25 Audi E-tron Sure, Audi’s first fully electric car comes to the US without the drag-cutting, range-boosting cameras that replace side-view mirrors in the EU version—blame our regulations. But you can still go around 200 miles per charge and hit 60 mph in sub-6 seconds, in an SUV stuffed with the design savvy that comes with the four-ringed badge.
$74,800 at Audi Joseph Shin 26 Fitbit Charge 3 The Charge is Fitbit’s best-selling activity tracker, and for good reason: It offers step counting, workout tracking, and heart-rate measuring, all without the weight, expense, or complexity of most smartwatches. The third generation has a more accurate heart-rate-sensing module and lasts up to seven days on a single, er, charge.
$149 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 27 Boss Katana-Air Along with doodling album covers and dreaming up groovy names, tripping over your cables is part of being in a band. Tidy up your practice space with Boss’ wireless amplifier. Plug the included transmitter into your ax and get everything from a glassy shimmer to a raw crunch from the 30-watt amp. It even wakes up automatically when you pick up your guitar.
$400 at Amazon Joseph Shin 28 Rothy's The Sneaker Rothy’s 3D-knitted footwear uses a proprietary yarn manufactured from recycled plastic water bottles. Like the company’s other shoes, the Sneaker is a machine-washable, sockless slip-on and comes in nine vibrant colors (garnet!). It’s comfortable enough to become the shoes your feet request every morning.
$125 at Rothy's Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 29 "All Over the Map" Betsy Mason and Greg Miller This beautiful tome by WIRED alumni Betsy Mason and Greg Miller charts the fascinating history of cartography. The scores of maps in the book range from the whimsical (origins of meats supplied to Parisian butchers) to the political (North Dakota fracking sites) to the fantastical (Jerry Gretzinger’s imaginary world).
$50 at Amazon Joseph Shin 30 Nimble 5-Day Fast Portable Charger Battery packs are handy, but the environmental impact of electronics is out of hand. Let your giftee rest easy—this juice box is made from eco-friendly bioplastics and recyclable aluminum. Support for USB-C and the new Power Delivery standard means they can top off any device without ticking off Mother Nature.
$60 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin; Penato Knife courtesy of umamimart.com 31 Yoshiharu Hamono Penato Knife The century-old Japanese firm Yoshiharu Cutlery earned its stripes handcrafting chisels. Now it makes elegant knives like this pocketable specimen. Its take on a Kiridashi utility knife pairs a carbon-steel blade with a brass body. Keep it on your desk to slice open packages, or simply display it as a sharp conversation piece.
$12 at Umami Mart Joseph Shin; DOT Pocket Puzzle courtesy of artofplay.com 32 Hanayama DOT Pocket Puzzle That fidget spinner is so last year. This three-dimensional matrix puzzle is a far more attractive way to keep your fingers busy, and its relatively low difficulty is perfectly suited for novice puzzlers. Once you’ve cracked the code, the DOT becomes a clever challenge for all those chatterboxes who stop by your desk to sabotage your productivity.
$14 at Art of Play Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 33 Savage Industries EDC Two This tool bag from Mythbusters host Adam Savage is based on Neil Armstrong’s McDivitt tote. But while the astronaut’s lunar pack was pure white, Savage’s newest satchel is deep-space black. Each bag is sewn from repurposed sailcloth by San Francisco's Mafia Bags , so it’s durable enough to take your lunch, headphones, and bike lock to the moon and back.
$175 at Savage Industries Photograph: Ultimate Ears 34 Ultimate Ears Boom 3 UE’s Boom series has topped our list of favorite Bluetooth speakers for a few years running. The shiny new Boom 3 inherits that portable party crown. It’s the same size as a tallboy of Budweiser, but it sounds like a magnum of Veuve Clicquot—which is to say, outstanding. The waterproof design (it floats!) comes in a variety of beach-ready colors.
$150 at Amazon $150 at Target Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 35 Prana Cozy Up Sweatshirt Step out of yoga class feeling fresh in this odor-minimizing sweatshirt made from a moisture-wicking blend of recycled polyester, hemp, and Tencel, a material derived from wood pulp. The addition of fleece lining lends a hint of luxury, and stitching details elevate the silhouette from schlubby sweatshirt to Savasana chic.
$79 at REI Joseph Shin 36 Herman Miller Cosm You won’t find many knobs or levers on the underside of Herman Miller’s new Cosm chair, but rather a four-point suspension system that constantly tilts and adapts to keep you balanced. The flexible Y-shaped frame and one-piece mesh seat offer responsive support as you fidget during those endless conference calls.
$895 at DWR Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 37 Dyson Cyclone V10 Absolute Our go-to stick vac gets a reboot with Dyson’s latest sucker, the V10. New to the mix is a torque-drive head with a motor inside the rotating brush, designed to give carpets and hardwood floors a more thorough scrubbing. A larger bin and an increased run time of up to an hour can handle even the gnarliest holiday-party messes.
$600 at Dyson Joseph Shin 38 Norlan Rauk Heavy Tumbler Your rarest whiskey deserves a most worthy vessel. Molten crystal is formed into this curvy, faceted, 1 1/4-pound chalice, then a unique process cools the varying thicknesses at different rates to keep the glass from cracking. Prefer an old-fashioned? The ridged bottom grips your ingredients for superior muddling.
$50 at Wine Enthusiast Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Brilliant 39 Brilliant Two Switch Panel Programming your smart home from your smartphone is easy, but what does your family do when you walk off with the all-in-one door lock, music player, and TV remote in your pocket? Brilliant’s two-switch touchscreen panel lets everyone turn on the lights, crank up the Sonos, switch off the thermostat, and bark at Alexa.
$349 at Brilliant Joseph Shin 40 Espro Ultralight Travel Press This multitasking travel mug has a French press inside that brews coffee or steeps loose-leaf tea. Prepare your concoction right in the cup, or pour in your elixir of choice. Drinks stay hot (or cold) for hours, thanks to double-wall vacuum insulation. And at just 1 pound, the Espro won’t weigh down your adventures.
$40 at REI Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Joseph Shin 41 Microsoft Surface Go (with Type Cover) If you’re not yet sold on the tablet PC future, try the Go, Microsoft’s 10-inch touchscreen computer with a kickstand. Pair it with the Type Cover ($100 and up) and the Surface Pen ($100) for easier swiping, tapping, and doodling, and you’ll see how well the tiny Go fits—and works—in places other Windows machines can’t.
$549 at Microsoft Joseph Shin 42 iFixit Pro Tech Toolkit Why wait for tech support? This handy kit from the nerds at iFixit contains all the tools you need to replace or repair parts deep inside your devices. With an 87-piece suite of bits, tweezers, drivers, and spudgers, you can MacGyver pretty much anything from a current-gen iPhone to your vintage NES.
$60 at iFixit Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 43 Death's Door Spirits Wondermint Crack open this bottle of schnapps for an aperitif, or simply freshen up your bar cart with its bright aqua-green hue. The Wisconsin craft distillery Death’s Door Spirits uses a special blend of peppermint extract, almond, rosewater, and absinthe to create the minty flavor. Enjoy it neat, mixed with hot cocoa, or as the highlight of a Mint Mule.
$26 at Drizly Joseph Shin 44 KEF R3 The flashy metal cones on KEF’s newest speakers can’t camouflage their smartest design detail: The concentric driver nestles the tweeter at the center of the mid-range speaker, creating a single acoustic point of origin for the high and mid frequencies that keeps your Floyd from getting flabby. Hook them up to your stereo and they’ll intensify every track on your playlist.
$2,000 at KEF Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin 45 Fujifilm XF10 Phones make convenient shooters, but even the best of them can’t beat a real camera for quality. This point-and-shoot packs DSLR-grade imaging into a trim body. With its 28-mm-equivalent lens and gorgeous film simulation modes, the pocketable XF10 is well suited for candid street photography, landscapes, and portraiture.
$429 at Adorama Joseph Shin; Oloid courtesy of stillhousenyc.com 46 Oloid in Brass This precision-machined, 2-inch-tall brass sculpture by artist Pat Kim rolls across a flat surface with a gentle push. Based on the dual-circle oloid shape discovered by inventor and mathematician Paul Schatz in 1929, this update is the perfect desk-topping gift for the contemplative (or procrastinating) creative in your life.
$120 at Still House NYC Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Joseph Shin; Black Panther by Marvel/Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures/Everett Collection 47 Samsung 65-Inch Q8FN 4K TV This set is primed for movie night: It can accurately display the panoply of colors supported by the film industry’s DCI-P3 projection standard. And when you’re streaming 4K encoded for HDR playback, its backlight control handles extreme lights and darks— Black Panther ’s nighttime car chase will thrill, even in bright rooms.
$2,300 at Samsung Joseph Shin; Eames Radio courtesy of store.moma.org 48 Eames Radio by Vitra It’s easy to buy an Eames chair; the design duo made scads of them, and they’re still in production. But their 1946 table radio was never manufactured—until now. The revived radio gets a 21st-century update with the addition of Bluetooth connectivity. Fewer than 1,000 have been made; it’s a true Eames original.
$999 at MoMA Design Store Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft 49 See Our Wish List Picks in Action Senior Writer Lauren Goode takes us through some of the coolest gadgets for your family and friends.
Click here to watch the video.
Topics magazine-26.12 wish-list gift guides buying guides Shopping Matt Jancer Simon Hill WIRED Staff Louryn Strampe Alistair Charlton Brenda Stolyar Brenda Stolyar Adrienne So WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
