Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google’s data saver mode in Chrome for Android will now save up to 70% Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google announced on Monday that it’s updated the data saver mode in Chrome for Android to save up to 70 percent of data when browsing web pages. That’s up from 50 percent , previously.
Users in India and Indonesia (two huge emerging markets for mobile, specifically Android) will be the first to receive the new feature, which will be rolling out to other countries in the coming months.
Tal Oppenheimer, Google’s product manager for Chrome, explained in a blog posting that Chrome is doing this “by removing most images when loading a page on a slow connection.” “After the page has loaded, you can tap to show all images or just the individual ones you want, making the web faster and cheaper to access on slow connections.” While Apple’s mobile Safari browser for iOS can now block ads , it doesn’t yet offer a dedicated data saver mode, like Chrome.
But data saving continues to be a trend, as more of the emerging world comes online through cheap Android smartphones. Last week, Opera Software rolled out an update to its data-saving Android app, Opera Max, to include music-streaming apps.
Oppenheimer didn’t comment on when Google will bring the 70 percent savings to Chrome for iOS.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
