Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Intel promotes 8 executives, but its upper ranks aren’t more diverse Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Intel CEO Brian Kraznich at Intel analyst day.
Intel announced eight executive promotions today, but seven of those are white and Asian men. The lone person who would qualify as a diverse candidate within that group is Christina Min, who was promoted to corporate vice president and group controller for the corporate finance group.
Intel has committed to hiring 40 percent of all new employees as women or underrepresented minorities (which does not include Asian men). In the most recent year, Intel said that 43 percent of new hires were women and underrepresented minorities. Brian Krzanich, chief executive of Intel, has made diversity and inclusion one of his major priorities at Intel.
Of course, the eight promotions today tell very little about the overall makeup of the executive staff at Intel, which does include high-ranking women. In response to a query, Intel said, “Intel promoted 12 women into the appointed (or group) VP ranks and three women are receiving new Intel Fellow honors (this includes Genevieve Bell, who is now a Senior Fellow). While there’s more to do, we are narrowing the gap when it comes to female representation. We’ll have more to share on this next week when our diversity report comes out Feb. 3.” Today’s promotions include advancing Wendell Brooks, former corporate vice president, to senior vice president. He is head of Intel Capital, the chip maker’s global investment group.
Steven Fund, chief marketing officer, was also promoted from corporate vice president to senior vice president. The other promotions involve the following new corporate vice presidents: Peng Bai, co-director of the Logic Technology Development organization within Intel’s Technology and Manufacturing Group; Brice Hill, group controller for corporate finance; Matthew Smith, director of HR business and employee solutions; Weng Kuan Tan, general manager of the client computing group; and Jason Waxman, general manager of the cloud platforms group.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
