Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Uber riders from China can now use Alipay to pay for trips in Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Macau Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Uber has formed a partnership with the Ant Financial Services Group that will make it easier for China-based riders to pay for rides in other regions. Ahead of the Chinese New Year, the company permits riders from mainland China to use their Alipay accounts when using the service in other regions, starting with Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Macau. The payments will be made in RMB currency and will be extended to other parts of the world later this year.
Alipay had been supported by Uber since 2014, but only for those rides within mainland China. If you traveled to Hong Kong, you would have to connect a dual-currency credit card with your account and be billed in U.S. dollars. Now this simplifies the payment process and is likely a move to encourage more riders to consider using Uber.
More than 125 million outbound trips were made by people from mainland China in 2015, according to the investment group CLSA.
 And Chinese New Year is an event when millions of people will make the trek home to spend time with their family — which Uber wants to help enable. So in order to overcome a potential roadblock, specifically having to deal with currency issues just to get home, Uber struck this partnership to make it easier for Chinese riders.
Also, by making its service more convenient to riders in mainland China, Uber could be trying to be more competitive against Didi Chuxing (formerly Didi Kuaidi) , which has formed a ridesharing alliance with Uber’s main U.S. rival, Lyft.
“We’re delighted to partner with Alipay, and to work with them to bring the convenience of their payment platform to our users internationally,” said Eric Alexander, Uber’s head of business in Asia, in a canned statement. “As the only truly global ridesharing platform, we are increasingly seeing very strong demand from mainland Chinese riders using Uber in other markets internationally, and this partnership enables us to provide these travelers with a more convenient, hassle-free payment solution.” The company explained that Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Macau were selected not only due to their popularity with China’s business and leisure travelers, but also because of their importance to Uber and Alipay — all three are key markets for both services.
This isn’t the first time that Alipay has formed a partnership with the private on-demand car service. It has also been a supporter of Uber’s API service.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
