Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Samsung confirms Galaxy S7 event for February 21 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
It’s been a crazy Samsung weekend. In less than 48 hours, we learned what the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge will look like, and when the two phones from the world’s biggest smartphone maker will be announced: February 21.
Here’s a quick recap in case you crawled under a rock for the past few days.
It all started on Friday when infamous leaker Evan Blass unveiled the first press shots of the two devices. He published one (included above) by updating the feature image for VentureBeat’s article titled “ Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 edge will feature microSD, water resistance, and larger batteries ” — that’s his piece from earlier this month detailing the devices. The other one he published on Twitter: https://t.co/JT6X0g8sBu pic.twitter.com/J78eezrU5o — Evan Blass (@evleaks) January 29, 2016 Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Notice the date in the above picture. Sunday, February 21. What’s the closest year that February 21 falls on a Sunday? Oh, you know, 2016.
On Saturday, Blass added fuel to the fire by tweeting images indicating that Samsung indeed has plans to unveil #TheNextGalaxy on that exact day: FYI pic.twitter.com/j6CdsN6Gl5 — Evan Blass (@evleaks) January 31, 2016 Naturally, there were skeptics. But it didn’t take that long to convert them.
On Sunday, Samsung confirmed the date and venue: “February 21 (Sun) 19:00 CET (Doors Open at 18:00)” and “CCIB (Centre de Convencions Internacional de Barcelona).” Barcelona is of course the home of Mobile World Congress, arguably the world’s biggest smartphone event. This year’s edition takes place between February 22 and February 25, though the Sunday is often when big news starts to trickle in.
The South Korean company also published the following teaser video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3g3O94WALV8 The clip doesn’t reveal much. A man wearing Samsung’s Gear VR headset could mean anything, though we can’t help but hope Samsung has virtual reality news to share. Samsung’s event will be streamed live , so at the very least the company should let Gear VR owners tune into the launch event in virtual reality. Right? Just imagine: Using the S6 to see the S7 get unveiled right in front of you.
Update on February 1 : And now Blass gives us the backs.
Part two.
(Background: https://t.co/JT6X0g8sBu ) pic.twitter.com/SOtHYAJexu — Evan Blass (@evleaks) February 1, 2016 GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
