Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Clearside Biomedical, Inc. Announces Appointment of Richard J. Croarkin to the Board of Directors Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn ALPHARETTA, Ga.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–February 29, 2016– Clearside Biomedical, Inc., a late-stage clinical biopharmaceutical company developing innovative first-in-class drug therapies to treat blinding diseases of the eye, today announced that Richard J. Croarkin has been appointed to Clearside’s Board of Directors. Mr. Croarkin is the former Senior Vice President of Finance, Chief Financial Officer & Corporate Strategy Officer of Alcon, Inc. and brings extensive global financial experience from working for diverse companies, including Nestlé Health Science S.A., Pepsico Incorporated and AMAX, Inc.
“We are delighted to have Rick join our Board of Directors,” said Daniel H. White, CEO and President of Clearside. “Rick’s extensive financial experience and understanding of the medical industry will be invaluable to Clearside as our company continues to grow.” “I am excited about the opportunity to work with the team at Clearside as they advance the treatment of blinding diseases of the back-of-the-eye using their proprietary suprachoroidal space (SCS™) microinjector-based drug therapies delivered via the suprachoroidal space,” said Mr. Croarkin.
Mr. Croarkin served as Chief Financial Officer of Nestlé Health Science S.A., a division of Nestlé focused on medicalized nutrition solutions for chronic medical conditions. As noted above, Mr. Croarkin worked at Alcon, Inc. from August 2007 to November 2010. Prior to Alcon, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Nestlé Waters North America. Before joining Nestlé, Mr. Croarkin worked for Pepsico Incorporated for 11 years where he served in several global senior financial positions including Chief Financial Officer of Pepsi-Cola Latin America and Pepsi-Cola Canada. Mr. Croarkin started his career with AMAX, Inc. where he worked in treasury, corporate development and planning. He holds a BA in Economics from Georgetown University, an MBA in Finance from the University of Connecticut and a Diploma in French language from Alliance Francaise in Paris, France.
Mr. Croarkin is currently a Director on the Board of Aerie Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which he joined in May 2015. Mr. Croarkin also serves as a panelist on the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel.
About Clearside Biomedical, Inc.
Clearside Biomedical, Inc., headquartered in Alpharetta, GA, is a late-stage clinical biopharmaceutical company developing innovative first-in-class drug therapies to treat blinding diseases of the eye using Clearside’s proprietary SCS™ microinjector to reach diseased tissue through the suprachoroidal space. Clearside holds intellectual property protecting the delivery of drugs of any type through the suprachoroidal space to reach the back of the eye.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160229005229/en/ Clearside Biomedical, Inc.
Charles Deignan, 678-270-4005 Chief Financial Officer charlie.deignan@clearsidebio.com or The Trout Group Investors Matthew Beck, 646-378-2933 mbeck@troutgroup.com VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
