Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google and Bing agree: Trump will win on Super Tuesday (Update) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Update/Correction: This post was updated at 5:01 a.m. Pacific 3/1/2016 to reflect current search data. The headline of an earlier version of this post was corrected to remove suggestion that Google and Bing showed similar predictions for Clinton.
Today is Super Tuesday, when 12 states hold their primary elections and caucuses in the U.S. presidential campaign. It is arguably the most important day for candidates in the battle for the Democratic and Republican nominations, a day when the most states and the most delegates are up for grabs. It’s also a day when the wisdom of the crowds, a hallmark of American democracy, is put to the test.
And while entering a search query is quite different from casting a vote, a look at search trends on Bing Search Wave and Google Trends offers a powerful indicator of people’s support for the candidates. Call it the curiosity of the crowds.
As of this writing (on the morning of Super Tuesday), both Bing and Google agree: Based on search volume, Trump will win all 11 Republican contests. However, they disagree on the Democratic contests, with Bing showing Sanders ahead 6 states to Clinton’s 5 states, and Google showing Sanders ahead in 9 of the 11 contested states. (The discrepancy between 11 contests across 12 states is due to Alaska holding its Democratic contest on March 26 and Alaska holding its Republican contest on March 29.) How the Republican candidates rank on Bing Search Wave : How the Democratic candidates rank on Bing Search Wave : How the Republican candidates rank on Google Trends : For the Democratic candidates, Google Trends is ranking them on a state-by-state basis. For example, Texas: For updated information on candidate search queries, visit Bing Search Wave and Google Trends throughout Super Tuesday.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
