Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google strengthens Gmail security with optical character recognition for attachments Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Gmail on Android.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
In conjunction with its appearance at the RSA security conference in San Francisco tomorrow, Google announced today that it’s rolling out security enhancements for Gmail. Perhaps the most interesting one is bringing optical character recognition for attachments, such as images and copies of documents. That way, businesses will be able to pick up on the transfer of sensitive information and respond appropriately.
The feature is an addition to the data loss prevention (DLP) feature of Gmail, which became available to Google Apps Unlimited Customers in December. Google Apps admins can use the new feature in association with the content compliance and objectionable content settings in the admin console, a Google spokesperson told VentureBeat.
Google is also rolling out more granular DLP tools, as Google vice president for security and privacy engineering Gerhard Eschelbeck wrote in a blog post.
“Finally, new predefined detectors offer broader coverage of HIPAA data and personally identifiable information (PII) globally,” Eschelbeck wrote.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Google continues to add to Gmail, which makes sense as it has more than 1 billion users. Enterprise-focused features like this should help the application became more widely adopted in enterprises.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
