Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter: Leonardo DiCaprio’s Best Actor win sets record for most-tweeted minute at Oscars Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Leonardo DiCaprio accepts the Academy Award for Best Actor in 2016 for his role in "The Revenant." Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Leonardo DiCaprio made history multiple times during the 88th Academy Awards on Sunday. Not only did the actor finally win Best Actor for his performance in The Revenant, but Twitter said that he is responsible for the most-tweeted minute ever to take place during an Oscars telecast. It unseats the previous record holder belonging to the famous group selfie tweeted by Ellen DeGeneres in 2014.
According to Twitter, there were more than 440,000 tweets per minute posted when DiCaprio accepted the award. By comparison, DeGeneres’ tweet caused 255,000 tweets per minute.
#Oscars : @Leodicaprio almost broke the internet when he bagged the award for best actor – his first ever Oscar pic.twitter.com/9EeRkJfHyL — Brandwatch React (@BW_React) February 29, 2016 Much of the impetus behind that record was likely people who were ecstatic about the actor finally winning an Oscar after six previous Academy Award nominations for films like What’s Eating Gilbert Grape , The Wolf of Wall Street , Blood Diamond , and The Aviator.
 Of course, DiCaprio’s acceptance speech about global warming also played a big part: “Climate change is real, it is happening right now,” he said. “It is the most urgent threat facing our entire species, and we need to work collectively together and stop procrastinating…Let us not take this planet for granted. I do not take tonight for granted.” Oh, and let’s not forget all the new memes that were created in celebration of DiCaprio’s achievements.
Thank you to the Academy and the incredible cast & crew of #TheRevenant.
#Oscars — Leonardo DiCaprio (@LeoDiCaprio) February 29, 2016 https://twitter.com/hellokris/status/704182498595450880?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
