Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Acer’s Chromebase for Meetings is a $799 machine designed for video conferences Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Acer Chromebase for meetings.
Google today announced the first Chromebase for Meetings device from Acer. It’s a desktop computer designed exclusively for videoconferencing. It costs $799, and it’s available from Google’s partners in U.S, Canada, U.K., Ireland, and Australia. It will become available in more countries later.
There have been Chromebase devices before. And two years ago Google itself jumped into the videoconferencing hardware business in 2014 with the launch of the Chromebox for Meetings. This is simpler. But it hints at Google’s commitment to coming out with more types of devices that meet the needs of companies.
Chromebase for Meetings is “an all-in-one secure video-conferencing device optimized for use in small meeting areas with up to two people,” Vidya Nagarajan, senior product manager of Chrome for Work at Google, wrote in a blog post.
It’s equipped with a 24-inch touchscreen display, an HD camera, four microphones, and two stereo speakers, Nagarajan wrote.
To encourage sales of the new devices, Google has an offer to sell $549 per device if you buy two, with management and support available for free.
Acer’s statement on the news is here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
