Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Intel debuts Broadwell EP server chips that make the cloud faster Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Intel Broadwell EP chip Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Intel is introducing its new generation of Xeon E5-2600 v4 chips for enterprise cloud hardware today. And it’s going to make the cloud faster.
Code-named Broadwell-EP, the new chips were introduced by Diane Bryant, senior vice president of the data center group at Intel, during an event in San Francisco today. They’re the latest chips that will keep data centers humming without melting down. It’s all in the name of giving businesses more flexibility and choice when it comes to deploying versions of cloud computing.
The new server chips were introduced along with a bunch of announcements for enterprise cloud customers. The event is aimed at helping customers deploy private and hybrid cloud infrastructure based on Intel servers. The new chips range in performance from 2 gigahertz to 5 gigahertz, and they consume anywhere from 85 watts to 165 watts.
Intel also announced collaborations with leading cloud software and solution providers. The company is unveiling new technologies, investments, and partnerships at the event. It also has a new set of solid state drives. Intel says the foundation is software-defined infrastructure, sitting atop its server processors.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Enterprises want to benefit from the efficiency and agility of cloud architecture and on their own terms — using the public cloud offerings, deploying their own private cloud, or both,” said Bryant, in a statement. “The result is pent-up demand for software-defined infrastructure. Intel is investing to mature SDI solutions and provide a faster path for businesses of all sizes to reap the benefits of the cloud.” The new server chips are built on a 14-nanometer manufacturing process. It has 20 percent more cores than the prior generation, supports faster memory, and includes other integrated technologies for better results. Among the new partners are CoreOS, Mirantis,and VMware.
Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) and Intel announced the world’s largest cloud application testing cluster for applications “born in the cloud.” The cluster will include more than 1,000 Intel Xeon processor-based server nodes that are designed to provide developers with the opportunity to test applications at larger scales and to deliver the efficiency and portability of cloud-native applications to businesses.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
