Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft begins selling Azure IoT Starter Kits from $50 to $160 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Microsoft Azure IoT Starter Kit with Adafruit Feather board.
Microsoft today announced at its Build developer conference that it’s now selling five new Azure IoT Starter Kits , which are available for as little as $50 each.
There are an Adafruit Raspberry Pi Kit, an Adafruit Feather M0 Kit, an Adafruit Huzzah Feather ESP8266 Kit, Seeed’s Intel Edison Kit, and the SparkFun Thing Dev Kit.
“These kits allow anyone with Windows or Linux experience to quickly build IoT prototypes that leverage all Azure’s IoT offerings,” Microsoft said in a statement.
 Each kit comes with a development board that’s compliant with the Azure Certified for IoT program, along with sensors, actuators, and tutorials.
The idea of selling a kit like this isn’t completely novel. Public cloud market leader Amazon Web Services (AWS) introduced Grove IoT Starter Kits powered by AWS at its re:Invent conference in October.
The Azure IoT Suite was first announced about a year ago, and last month the Azure IoT Hub , a key part of the portfolio, came out of public preview.
In addition, there’s a new tool called the Azure IoT Gateway SDK, which simplifies the process of connecting older devices to the Internet. And now the Azure IoT Hub has a public preview of device management, too.
Update at 1:39 p.m. Pacific: Added that device management is part of the Azure IoT Hub.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
