Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Atlas Reactor shows how its turn-based team tactics game works with open alpha Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Atlas Reactor.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
These days, it’s never too early to get people playing (and talking) about your game.
Trion announced today that its simultaneous turn-based team tactics Atlas Reactor is now in open alpha, meaning anyone can try the unconventional game. Most turn-based titles have players taking, well, turns. In Atlas Reactor, however, all players pick their movements and actions at the same time and then watch the subsequent wave of chaos unfold simultaneously. While games like Civilization or X-Com are methodical and slow-paced, Atlas Reactor wants it action to appear more exciting, which could help attract the esports crowd that loves watching real-time games like League of Legends and Counter-Strike: Global Offensive.
Open alphas are rare, since a game in an alpha state is far from finished. Typically, developers don’t expand free testing until they are well into the beta phase. Still, these days, word-of-mouth is key for a new competitive PC game hoping to find an audience. Allowing as many people as possible to play a game, especially one as unconventional as this, can start more buzz.
Atlas Reactor will enter a closed beta on April 14. You can check out some gameplay below.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xu7i1ldlfNw GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
