Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Event Luminaries to debate distribution trends at Mobile Summit Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
At our Mobile Summit event next week, we’ve invited a terrific group of executives to the scenic resort of Cavallo Point in Sausalito.
They represent a who’s who of the mobile giants, including Google, Uber, Amazon, Pinterest, Machine Zone, GrubHub, Pandora, Tinder, Yahoo, Adobe, Runtastic, AOL, Zynga, Pocket Gems, LinkedIn, Yelp, and many more.
We’re trying something new this year: Lightning Rounds. Out on the lawn, several top execs will give quick power talks on what they see as the defining big trend for mobile distribution in 2016 and 2017.
Here are the brave folks to step up: Above: Mike Ghaffary, Yelp Eat24 Mike Ghaffary, CEO, Yelp Eat24 — Ghaffary took over as CEO of Eat24 last year after Yelp acquired that company, and our bet is that he’s going to emphasize the app as potentially even more important than ever as a core distribution driver. Eat24 has seen some great growth lately, averaging more than 75 percent annual growth over the last two quarters of last year. It has expanded coverage to 30,000 restaurants from 18,000. And from my back-of-the-envelope math based on its revenue, it’s doing transactions of around $1 billion run rate.
Above: Casey Winters, Pinterest Above: Bill Magnuson, Appboy Above: Julie Ask, Forrester Julie Ask, Principal Analyst, Forrester — Ask is Forrester’s leading mobile analyst, offering mobile tech and strategies advice to companies engaging with consumers. She has worked with hundreds of clients across retail, travel, banking, insurance, CPG, and health care, so her take is going to be sharp.
Above: Dave Temkin, Cola Above: Andrew Grill, IBM Above: Chris Messina, Uber Anyway, awesome lineup. We invite only 180 executives to attend the Summit (but you still have time to apply to attend here).
Hope to see you there! VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
