Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages After 4 days, Doom creators pull plug on Blackroom Kickstarter to work on a demo Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn John Romero and Adrian Carmack are backing off their crowdfunding campaign.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
John Romero needs to do some programming before he continues asking you for money.
After 2,287 pledged $131,052, developer Night Works Games has canceled the funding for its Blackroom crowdfunding project on Kickstarter , according to a message it sent to backers on the site. Night Work founders John Romero and Adrian Carmack, creators of the classic shooter Doom at id Software, revealed that they want to finish a demo for the arena shooter in order to comply with Kickstarter’s policies.
 A demo could also potentially increase the excitement for the game, which may help it raise funding at a much more rapid pace than Blackroom. While crowdfunding has helped raise millions of dollars for games, Romero’s game was not on pace to smash through its $700,000 goal.
For example, the Harmonix rhythm game Amplitude asked for $775,000 in 2014.
 It ended up raising $844,000. To get to that figure, the project had already received $200,000 in pledges after four days, according to Kickstarter tracking site Kicktraq.
 Blackroom only has $131,052 through a similar period, which suggests it would have struggled to get to the end goal.
Night Work explained that they are not thrilled with having to put Blackroom on hold, but it wants to bring the demo to fans.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “We believe, however, it is the right choice,” Romero and Carmack wrote in a post to backers. “We know you do, too.” I just wanted to tell everyone that we've decided to put together a BLACKROOM gameplay demo to show you what's… https://t.co/Ayi2noMXVl — John Romero (@romero) April 29, 2016 Romero and Carmack provided a pitch video on the Blackroom Kickstarter site, but it only features concept art. It’s likely that the pair were hoping that announcing the return of key talent from the Doom team would generate enough excitement on its own. Doom is one of the most important games ever made, and it defined the era that turned PC gaming into a massive entertainment industry.
Even for people who are fans of Doom, however, many do not want to put money into something that isn’t coming until 2018 without even seeing what it looks like. But Romero thinks that once they get the demo together, gamers will convert their excitement for a new shooter from key Doom talent into financial support for the campaign.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
