Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages HTC 10 confirmed for a May 13 launch on Sprint Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn HTC 10 Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
We now have a little more clarity about when HTC’s latest flagship phone could start shipping in the U.S., as Sprint today confirmed that the HTC 10 will be available from May 13.
HTC first unveiled the device — which comes with a Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor, 5.2-inch QHD display, and 12 UltraPixel camera — earlier this month, as the Taiwan-based tech titan chases the likes of Samsung’s Galaxy S7 and LG’s G5.
 The HTC 10 is already available to preorder SIM-free directly through HTC.com for $700, and Verizon is the first of the carriers to offer the device on preorder , starting today.
We still don’t have a firm shipping date, though VentureBeat’s own Evan Blass previously reported that the week of May 9 would likely be when the phone hit retail stores in the U.S. — and Sprint’s latest announcement ties in with that.
HTC M10: Hitting US retail the week of May 9th — Evan Blass (@evleaks) February 11, 2016 The HTC 10 will be available on Sprint’s LTE network on May 13 for $26 per month on a 24-month plan, with zero to pay up front. This compares to $22.83 per month with Verizon (we still don’t have a price (or date) for T-Mobile). AT&T won’t be offering the phone, however.
Once a giant of the Android world, HTC has struggled in recent times against the likes of Samsung. But with rumors suggesting that HTC has been lined up by Google to build its next line of Nexus phones, and with its very own HTC 10 flagship about to go to market, things could be looking up.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
