Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release North Kiteboarding and PIQ Tell You the Height of Your Jump Directly from Any Kiteboard Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn PARIS–(BUSINESS WIRE)–May 31, 2016– North Kiteboarding and PIQ revealed a game-changer for the kiteboarding industry, in the form of a sport specific accessory. With the most advanced sensor technology, it works in real-time and displays information via the PIQ attached to the board. For an enhanced riding experience, North Kiteboarding and PIQ will shake up your sessions and stoke! This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160531006196/en/ North Kiteboarding and PIQ multisports sensor (Photo: Business Wire) North Kiteboarding and PIQ share the same ambition: To enhance the kiteboarding experience and further the passion for sports.
While PIQ brought its tech know-how to the table, North Kiteboarding brought its kiteboarding expertise to help design the mobile application and the accessory.
 The accessory is a kit composed of a mount that can be fixed to any board and a housing in which the kiter will secure the PIQ sensor.
 It is rugged, waterproof, shockproof and corrosion resistant.
The PIQ sensor is connected via Bluetooth at low energy to a dedicated mobile application (iOS and Android). Riders will now have access to a powerful and wearable product that gives detailed jump performance metrics: height of jumps, air time, G force at landing, number of jumps etc., thanks to its 13 axes.
“We are very enthusiastic to work with PIQ and launch this new connected solution everywhere the wind blows! North Kiteboarding and PIQ enables all riders, casual or serious, to track their jumps. Our connected solution will allow any kiter to be proud of their ride and share it.” says Till Eberle, CEO of North Kiteboarding.
Cédric Mangaud, CEO and cofounder of PIQ, shares the same enthusiasm: “As a kiteboarding addict myself, I am very happy and honored to partner with the #1 Kiteboarding brand to achieve my dream of knowing the height of my jump directly on my board. Sharing our respective expertise, we have worked together with one single goal in mind: to bring a lot more fun to kiteboarding. For us, the more you enjoy the ride, the more you practice and the better you get.
” Get your jump height in real-time on your board Thanks to the PIQ technology, kiters can visualize their jump height in real-time on their board, even in bright sunlight. For Aaron Hadlow, North kiteboarding team rider and Winner of the 2015 Redbull King of the Air, “it’s a super fun toy and pretty neat.
PIQ is really an addictive connected sensor for all kiters that want to save some proof of the most epic jump they ever made.
Once you’re used to knowing your performance after each jump, you never want to go for a ride without it again! ” Instantly challenge the kiters’ community North Kiteboarding and PIQ measures performance and progress for riders during and after their sessions. It highlights the best jumps and the best score in the leaderboard, allowing riders to be part of the PIQ community, to challenge their friends, compete against other kiteboarders from across the globe, and partake in the international leaderboard.
After golf, tennis and ski, PIQ is the 1st connected sensor to go from ground to water, confirming its’ ambition to enhance the sport experience and make it more exciting.
Pricing and availability North Kiteboarding and PIQ come bundled with an advanced PIQ multi-sport sensor and a battery bank charger compatible with all PIQ products. It includes a kiteboard accessory and an activation card to connect the sensor in kiteboard mode.
PIQ multisport sensor and kiteboard accessory will be available on www.piq.com at a price of 208€ at the end of June (with special pre-order discount until June 30th). For an already owned PIQ sensor, only the accessory is required for the kiteboard mode. It is available at 59€ on www.piq.com.
To access the Media Kit and the video: https://drive.google.com/a/licencek.com/folderview?id=0B0mle1SVgKX0Tm5pbHo1eWtibk0&usp=gmail https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z1_hJ-ZT7Ss www.piq.com About North Kiteboarding North Kiteboarding is the world’s leading Kiteboarding brand. The high-tech performance, premium quality, innovative design and versatility of our products form the foundation that we have built the brand on. Over the last 10 years, our passion and drive has seen great success and achievements. We are continually working towards the support and growth of the Kiteboarding industry and the lifestyle it represents. North Kiteboarding is a subsidiary of Boards&More, which was founded in 2000 to design and deliver products under the brands Fanatic, ION, North Kiteboarding and North Sails Windsurfing.
About PIQ PIQ is a French based company, a subsidiary of Octonion, a Swiss based company specializing in software and services for sensors. PIQ is a team composed of seasoned executives, designers and engineers located in Switzerland, France, Eastern Europe and the United States. The team has applied its many years of technology, design and market experience into creating and commercializing PIQ. PIQ is manufactured by Foxconn, the world’s largest electronic contract manufacturer in the world.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
