Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Hands-on with the zany Just Cause 3: Mech Land Assault DLC Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Just Cause 3 mech lets you catch a drone and toss it.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Square Enix and Avalanche Studios are unveiling the next installment of downloadable content for the Just Cause 3 silly shooter game that debuted last fall. Just Cause 3: Mech Land Assault debuts in early June.
The DLC is aimed at keeping the excitement going for Just Cause 3, which is one of the more creative shooters to hit the market in recent years. It’s like Grand Theft Auto for tropical island warfare , and now the new DLC introduces a new mech assault vehicle that produces hilarious results. I played Mech Land Assault hands-on at a recent Square Enix event.
Just Cause 3’s previous DLC, Sky Fortress, came out in March. With that DLC, you could play with Rico’s wingsuit and add a rocket to it. He could fire rockets and shoot his machine gun in mid-air, making him pretty deadly in the skies. Now with Mech Land Assault, you can get into a mech that looks like a walker with an oversized left arm. That arm has a gravity device built into it that can suck anything within range to the arm. Then you let go, and you can toss that thing a hundred yards or more.
You can pick up almost anything that is trying to attack you. I picked up infantry soldiers who were shooting pea shooters at me. I picked up motorcycles and jeeps loaded with soldiers. I picked up armored cars and tanks. I even knocked planes and helicopters out of the sky. It made me feel nearly invincible. The only thing you can’t pick up is another mech controlled by another human player in multiplayer. The physics is pretty realistic in the game, even for such a fanciful weapon. So you could pick up a tank and toss it at a watch tower and see the explosion take out the tower.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: Just Cause 3 I was tossing enemies around a small base on the tropical island. Reinforcements kept showing up and getting more and more powerful. First, some jeeps and motorcycle soldiers would show up, and I could get rid of them quite easily. But I always discovered that someone else had showed up because I was getting shot at. These shots caused actual damage to my mech. So I had to keep on picking up vehicles and tossing them back at the new arrivals. I lasted quite a long time before the collective impact of the jets, tanks, and helicopters eventually took their toll.
Tobias Anderson, the producer of Mech Land Assault, told GamesBeat that the storyline for the DLC will span about three to four hours. But I can imagine that you could get much more time than that by just playing with the mech unit for a long time.
Above: Just Cause 3 has some new DLC coming that makes land mech combat goofy.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
