Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Elon Musk: Tesla Model 3 owners won’t get free Supercharging for life without paying extra Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A promotional photo of a Tesla Supercharger station.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
During Tesla’s annual shareholder meeting , Elon Musk revealed that owners of the company’s first mass-market car, the $35,000 Model 3, will not receive free, unlimited access to Tesla’s Supercharger network of chargers for life — unless they purchase a specific package.
The question was posed by a Tesla shareholder, who specifically asked how the company plans to cope with the flood of new Tesla owners once it brings an affordable electric car to market. Here’s Musk’s answer [emphasis ours]: To date, we wanted to keep it really straightforward and easy. So that’s why the Superchargers are set up, at least to date for people who bought the cars, as free long-distance for life. Obviously that has, fundamentally, a cost. I don’t want to make this some big news headline, but the obvious thing to do is decouple that from the cost of the Model 3.
 So it will still be very cheap — and far cheaper than gasoline — to drive long-distance with the Model 3, but it will not be free long distance for life unless you’ve purchased that package.
I wish we could, but in order to achieve the economics, it has to be something like that. I want to just emphasize, what Tesla’s motivation is, is to make electric transport as affordable as possible. That is what informs all of our actions. So if we do something, and we charge for this, or we charge for that, it is not because we want to make things more expensive; it’s because we can’t figure out how to make things less expensive.
Later, Musk said: The best thing to do with an electric car is to charge your car where you charge your phone. Would you really take your phone to a gas station? … Driving to a Supercharger, in order to get $5-worth of electricity, and spending half an hour of your time, you’re like, maybe barely at minimum wage. So it’s just not the best thing for people, but you know, they kind of do it out of habit.
This appears to be the first time the company has explicitly stated that access to its network of chargers will not be free forever for owners of the lowest-tier Model 3 — although the company never promised to offer that perk , either.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
