Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages IBM and Cisco partner to bring Watson to the workplace. Could chatbots be on the way? Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Screenshot Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Cisco and IBM announced a partnership today to bring IBM’s AI-powered Watson into offices and their enterprise software.
The collaboration will mean that Cisco and IBM will mix and match services and may result in new chatbots for workplace tasks. Such chatbots might be used to integrate voice-activated software, automate routine tasks and eliminate the need to search through multiple apps and databases for information.
The Cisco and IBM partnership reflects growing interest in enterprise-level chatbots and will help the two companies compete against Slack, Yammer and Skype owner Microsoft, as well as Facebook’s business chat client, Facebook at Work.
“For example, a financial advisor could meet with a high value investor over Cisco video with a Watson service offering real-time advice and handling tasks, while files would be securely stored and available in IBM Connections, shared through WebEx for a seamless transaction,” the statement said.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The plan to work together will begin with bringing together Cisco’s chat app and video conference tools Spark and WebEx with IBM’s Verse, an email client, and Connections, an IBM chat app, the companies said in a statement.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
