Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook Messenger now has 11,000 chatbots for you to try Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg on stage at the F8 2015 developer conference talking about the Messenger Platform.
Facebook today released new statistics on the growth of chatbots on its Messenger app and announced new features related to chatbots.
Since the chatbot platform launched in April, more than 11,000 bots have been added to Messenger, Facebook vice president of messaging products David Marcus wrote in a Facebook post.
 For some context, in May, Marcus said that “tens of thousands” of developers were working on Messenger bots.
Also, more than 23,000 people have created accounts for the Bot Engine tool from wit.ai , Facebook’s natural language processing service for developers, Marcus wrote.
And Facebook now lets users rate Messenger chatbots, from one to five stars, and write reviews. But, at least for now, members of the public won’t be able to see this feedback.
“Ratings and reviews are currently shared with only the bot developer through a dashboard in developers.facebook.com and via email,” Marcus wrote.
Chat app makers have rapidly added new features in the past six months, both to compete for audience and to accommodate bots. Facebook Messenger, Skype, Kik, and Slack have added button features. And since the start of the year, Facebook Messenger, Skype, and Kik have all created bot platforms, along with Slack in late 2015.
With 900 million users, Facebook Messenger is one of the most-used chat apps on the planet.
As far as new features go, one big change is that chatbots can now send videos, audio clips, GIFs, and other files, Marcus wrote.
Each bot can now have a permanent menu of five options to allow more user navigation.
Up to 10 buttons can now be used to respond to a message. (Buttons are often used to give people a structured experience instead of plain text.) Buttons now pop up at the bottom of the screen in line with previously chosen options, instead of showing all options.
For those who opt in, a secure protocol is now available that allows businesses to connect customer and Messenger accounts. Facebook Messenger emojis also got an update June 1.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
