Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Calendar is down: Server Error (Update: Fixed) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Calendar on Android.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google Calendar is down, serving up a generic server error in 18 languages.
 VentureBeat staff members first noticed the problem at about 6:30 a.m. Pacific today.
The last outage for the service was back in November 2015.
 But for that one, Google Calendar would sometimes manage to load without a hitch. This time, we’re always redirected to the “ unavailable ” landing page. Users have taken to Twitter and Facebook to complain about the outage.
The English error message reads: “Google Calendar is temporarily unavailable. Please try back later. In the meanwhile, you might find useful information on our Help Group and Help Center. We apologize for any inconvenience.” The other 17 languages say more or less the same thing.
We have contacted Google about the outage and will update you if we learn more.
At 6:47 a.m. Pacific, the Google Apps dashboard confirmed the problem as a “Service disruption.” It states Google is “investigating reports of an issue with Google Calendar. We will provide more information shortly.” Update at 7:35 a.m. Pacific : Google has updated the dashboard to say it is “continuing to investigate this issue. We will provide an update by 6/30/16, 11:30 AM detailing when we expect to resolve the problem.” Update at 8:33 a.m. Pacific : Google Calendar is now working again for some users. Google expects a “resolution for all users in the near future.” Update at 11:36 a.m. Pacific : Google Calendar is now back for all users.
“The problem with Google Calendar should be resolved. We apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your patience and continued support. Please rest assured that system reliability is a top priority at Google, and we are making continuous improvements to make our systems better.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
