Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release TransUnion Powers New Prama Self-Service Analytics Platform with MapR Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn SAN JOSE, Calif.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–June 30, 2016– MapR Technologies, Inc., provider of the industry’s only Converged Data Platform, today revealed that TransUnion (NYSE:TRU), a global risk and information solutions provider, is using the MapR Converged Data Platform to power the initial product offerings in its new Prama analytics platform.
TransUnion recently launched Prama, a new self-service environment with advanced analytics leveraging the MapR Platform and Apache Drill. Prama provides TransUnion’s customers with market insights and historical perspectives to make better decisions and operationalize those decisions more effectively. Drill’s interactive SQL engine combines with Tableau’s visualization layer to constitute the primary components enabling analytics in Prama Insights.
The MapR-powered Prama Insights bases its analysis on TransUnion’s anonymized consumer credit database and a seven-year historical view of data. Data sources include records compiled from over 85,000 data feeds, covering about 300 million consumers. This self-service solution allows TransUnion customers to explore data and act on insights. With this new platform, TransUnion is allowing customers direct access to their content, but with the power of an advanced analytical platform and team of experts behind it.
Several years ago, TransUnion recognized their legacy platforms would not be able to scale and perform at the pace their vision for nimble pivoting and trend analysis demanded. In order to transform its technology to include cutting edge capabilities, TransUnion turned to MapR and began an IT-led project focused on providing their analysts and data scientists with greater flexibility, self-service access to full volumes of data and big data insight discovery capabilities. With the success of the internal project, TransUnion realized some of this content could be offered directly to customers to give them the ability to see for themselves how their decisions compare to the marketplace.
“With the launch of Prama, TransUnion is pushing the technology envelope,” said Kevin McClowry, director of analytic solution development for TransUnion. “From the beginning, the MapR core engineering team understood our vision and were able to scale at the level we needed. MapR gives us the ability to meet customer needs, shift when demands change and grow in more nimble ways.” TransUnion is experiencing the following benefits with MapR: Self-guided Research: Customers are engaged in a new way by having direct access to relevant benchmark trends and performance data. Using Hadoop ecosystem tools along with innovations in the MapR Platform, TransUnion’s customers can deploy solutions with familiar SQL tools to provide fast, scalable and cost-effective features.
Performance and Reliability: Extensive control over performance and reliability enables TransUnion to monitor performance and demand by segmenting data into content area.
Seamless Integration with the Enterprise: The use of open standard APIs make it easy to bring in all parts of the organization. Multiple sources of data are linked and this opens doors to more analytics-based solutions.
“Prama goes well beyond analytics allowing customers to deploy their insights through highly efficient interfaces,” said Jack Norris, senior vice president, data and applications, MapR Technologies. “Using the MapR Converged Data Platform as the foundation, Prama is able to combine comprehensive data and advanced analytics in one platform to transform lenders’ businesses.” Tweet this: .@MapR and TransUnion at forefront of innovation.
http://bit.ly/29cmjhg About MapR Technologies MapR provides the industry’s only converged data platform that integrates the power of Hadoop and Spark with global event streaming, real-time database capabilities, and enterprise storage, enabling customers to harness the enormous power of their data. Organizations with the most demanding production needs, including sub-second response for fraud prevention, secure and highly available data-driven insights for better healthcare, petabyte analysis for threat detection, and integrated operational and analytic processing for improved customer experiences, run on MapR. A majority of customers achieves payback in fewer than 12 months and realizes greater than 5X ROI. MapR ensures customer success through world-class professional services and with free on-demand training that over 50,000 developers, data analysts and administrators have used to close the big data skills gap. Amazon, Cisco, Google, HPE, Microsoft, SAP, and Teradata are part of the worldwide MapR partner ecosystem. Investors include Google Capital, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Mayfield Fund, NEA, Qualcomm Ventures and Redpoint Ventures. Connect with MapR on LinkedIn , and Twitter.
About TransUnion (NYSE:TRU) Information is a powerful thing. At TransUnion, we realize that. We are dedicated to finding innovative ways information can be used to help individuals make better and smarter decisions. We help uncover unique stories, trends and insights behind each data point, using historical information as well as alternative data sources. This allows a variety of markets and businesses to better manage risk and consumers to better manage their credit, personal information and identity. Today, TransUnion has a global presence in more than 30 countries and a leading presence in several international markets across North America, Africa, Latin America and Asia. Through the power of information, TransUnion is working to build stronger economies and families and safer communities worldwide.
We call this Information for Good.
http://www.transunion.com/business VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
