Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Workday acquires online learning company Zaption, will shut it down on September 30 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Zaption.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Zaption , a startup with a website where teachers and companies can host videos or use existing videos for teaching purposes, today announced that it has been acquired by publicly traded human capital management software company Workday. The Zaption service will shut down on September 30. Terms of the deal were not disclosed.
Zaption’s website, iOS app, and Chrome app let teachers overlay questions on top of videos — from YouTube, Vimeo, and other sources — and then capture responses and run analytics on engagement data. There are many pre-built lessons and even entire courses of lessons on subjects like advanced placement (AP) U.S. history and middle school science. Competitors include EDpuzzle and PlayPosit.
“Workday serves some of the world’s largest organizations and educational institutions that are eager to have better, more engaging learning experiences. We are excited to expand our reach by rebuilding our technology as part of the fabric of Workday’s applications, including the highly anticipated Workday Learning ,” the Zaption team wrote in a blog post.
Workday is not the most acquisitive software company. Previous deals include Upshot and Identified.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Zaption started in 2012 and is based in San Francisco. Investors include NewSchools Venture Fund, Redcrest Enterprises, Scion Capital, and Telegraph Hill Capital.
In a statement last year, Zaption said that its service had more than 200,000 users and that it was building new tools while working with partners — including San Francisco Unified School District and free online course provider Canvas Network.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
