Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Live Masters of mobile data: Acquiring high-value users, the right way (VB Live) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Stop wasting effort and money on users that don’t add value. Join this VB Live event to understand what you’re doing wrong — and what to do right — to land users vital to your success.
Register here for free.
For mobile app publishers, it’s not about winning over any user. It’s about acquiring the right kind of user that will keep you app’s revenue rocketing for years — the high-value user that sticks by your app from day one and continues to use it daily. Not only do these high-value users have higher engagements than the average user, but they drive the majority of app revenue as well. These are the users you want for your app.
It goes without saying that you won’t be the only one looking out for these high-value users. The mobile market is feisty, sometimes leaving publishers new and old with only one shot to impress consumers. If you fail to take notice of users’ wants and needs, you’re guaranteed to lose out on establishing a committed user base that would have kept your app healthy and strong.
It’s why a competitive user acquisition strategy must be in place. However, developers are nose-down on creating the best app they can, not on marketing, which often leaves a lot of questions unanswered. Should paid user acquisition be considered over organic growth? Or which acquisition platform should I invest in that will deliver the results I want? These questions and more are what’s stopping publishers from reaching their revenue potential. It’s why we’re offering this not-to-be-missed VB Live event about acquiring high-value users featuring Trulia’s VP of engineering Jeff McConathy. You’ll learn what’s the right price for acquiring a variety of quality users, how to maximize installations of your app organically, and what’s the perfect time and day to pursue consumers.
If you’re lost on where to begin with user acquisition, or are simply looking for a more cost-effective approach, this webinar is perfect for absorbing all the juicy details that are out there. Get the hard-won secrets and winning formulas from the front lines.
Don’t miss out.
Register here for free.
In this VB Live event, you’ll: Learn the price app publishers are currently paying to acquire quality users across several categories Review the top user acquisition platforms and why Understand the role of timing in UA Maximize organic installs of your mobile application Speakers: Ashley Blackmon, VP Marketing, Zillow Group Alexandra Press Maguire, Digital Marketing Director, Gilt Group Dave Myers , COO and Co-Founder, mParticle Moderator: Rachael Brownell, VentureBeat This VB Live event is sponsored by mParticle.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
