Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages eBay adopts Google’s AMP to speed up its mobile site Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google AMP pages are now being used on eBay's mobile site.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Ecommerce company eBay today announced that it has started using the Google-led open source Accelerated Mobile Pages (AMP) technology for more quickly displaying webpages on end users’ mobile devices. Altogether, around 8 million AMP pages are now live.
The new AMP-powered product category pages look cleaner than the non-AMP pages. But perhaps more importantly, they show up faster. And eBay will be bringing the new style to desktop and its native apps, eBay principal web engineer Senthil Padmanabhan wrote in a blog post.
But that’s not all.
“We have been thinking about leveraging the AMP ecosystem for our own search, similar to how Google handles AMP results,” Padmanabhan wrote. “This plan is in very early stages of discussion, but the possibility of our search using AMP technology is very interesting.” Pinterest, which is increasingly focused on ecommerce , has experimented with AMP pages in its app. But the technology has more commonly been implemented to serve up news articles. (You can say the same thing about Facebook’s proprietary Instant Articles technology.) Google News , Google search , the Google app , and the Google Play Newsstand app all rely on AMP now.
Google is now working with eBay on things like A/B testing and smart buttons.
“With items like these in place, AMP for eCommerce will soon start surfacing,” Padmanabhan wrote.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
