Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Maps now lets you plot multiple stops ahead of your trip Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Maps: Multi-stop Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google is introducing a couple of useful features to Google Maps on Android today, one of which will undoubtedly be greeted with cheers around the world.
Above: Google Maps: Stops While Google Maps already let users add a pit stop to trips while in navigation mode, now they will be able to input their start and end points and add multiple “stop offs” in advance, without beginning navigation. To use this new feature, hit the little three-dot menu and press “Add a stop.” For many, this has been a long time coming, as it effectively means you can plot an entire route ahead of time — one that takes in numerous stops and diversions — without having to repeatedly plug in a new “point B.” Though this feature will only be available on Android initially, it will be coming to iOS users “soon.” While Google’s official announcement didn’t reveal whether there was a limit to the number of stops you could input in advance, a spokesperson has now confirmed that you can add up to 10 locations as part of a single journey.
In addition to this, Google is also introducing a new update to users’ timelines that transforms their GPS-powered travel history into a diary of sorts — they can now add notes to remember what they did at a certain time in a specific place.
Google first introduced its Timeline feature last summer as a means of showing users everywhere they’ve ever been. It’s a neat tool, for sure, but those who wish to opt out can disable their location history from their settings if they’d rather not have their every movement recorded for posterity. The new notes feature is a nice addition to the images that are already pulled in automatically from your Google Photos profile — what you will effectively have is a personal log of every place you visit, replete with pictures and personal anecdotes.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
