Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Samsung launches unlocked Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge in the U.S. for $670 and $770 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Samsung has announced that unlocked versions of its Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge devices are now available in the U.S.
The duo of flagship phones have been available through all major carriers in the U.S. since March this year, but for those who prefer their phones off-contract, rather than tethered to a single network, this will no doubt be welcome news.
The Galaxy S7, which sports a 5.1-inch screen, will set you back $670, while the Galaxy S7 Edge, which comes with a 5.5-inch curved screen, clocks in at $770.
The new unlocked phones are available to buy today through Samsung.com and third-party retailers, such as Amazon, Best Buy, Sam’s Club, and Target.com.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
