Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Kanye West tells Apple to ‘give Jay Z his check for Tidal now’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Kanye West and Jay Z perform in the "Otis" video on their 2011 album Watch the Throne.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Rapper Kanye West this morning took to Twitter to weigh in on the report that Apple was considering an acquisition of Jay Z’s Tidal music streaming service. He demanded a meeting with himself, Jay Z, and Apple executives, and insisted that Apple “give Jay his check for Tidal now.” Apple, whose premium Apple Music service competes with Tidal, is typically silent about deals it is making or, in some cases, has made. So it’s fascinating to see someone prominent make noise about a deal that was reported to be in the works, and Kanye West, at that.
Kanye and Jay Z are longtime collaborators; Kanye has produced music on Roc-A-Fella Records, which Jay Z cofounded, and the two collaborated on the 2011 album “Watch the Throne.” Jay Z’s wife, Beyoncé Knowles, has released music exclusively on Tidal. Meanwhile, West has brought music to Tidal exclusively before, and West’s wife, Kim Kardashian, has generated lots of money through Apple by way of the Kim Kardashian: Hollywood app.
Apple has sought to bring exclusive content to Apple Music, and content from Rihanna, Beyoncé, and Jay Z himself may help Apple Music surpass other music streaming services, including Spotify.
Here’s what West wrote about the reported deal: This Tidal Apple beef is fucking up the music game.
— KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) July 30, 2016 I need Tim Cook Jay Z Dez Jimmy Larry me and Drake Scooter on the phone or in a room this week!!! — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) July 30, 2016 Fuck all this dick swinging contest. We all gon be dead in 100 Years. Let the kids have the music.
— KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) July 30, 2016 Apple give Jay his check for Tidal now and stop trying to act like you Steve.
— KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) July 30, 2016 Update at 10:10 p.m. Pacific: West apparently also wants Spotify’s CEO, Daniel Ek, to participate in the meeting that he called for.
I forgot to add Daniel Ek — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) July 31, 2016 VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
