Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Personal finance bot Trim says it’s saved users $6 million — and counting Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Trim on Facebook Mesenger screenshot. Credit: Khari Johnson Since Thomas Smyth and Daniel Petkevich created the chatbot Trim to rid their personal bank accounts of forgotten but costly subscription fees seven months ago , it has helped more than 50,000 people save $6.3 million.
That may be only the beginning.
Now Trim wants to find more ways to take proactive steps for users. It’s the ability to act on people’s behalf that has helped Trim grow, and new investments will help the company scale impact, CEO Thomas Smyth told VentureBeat.
On July 20, the company announced that its bot will no longer focus on subscription cancellation alone but will become a personal finance chatbot with the ambition to “replace mobile banking,” Smyth said.
The company also announced the closure of a $2.2 million seed round led by Eniac Ventures. Version One Ventures, Core Innovation Capital, and Sound Ventures, a VC firm cofounded by Ashton Kutcher, also invested in Trim.
Add to this that earlier this month Trim announced that its bot, formerly only available via text, is now on Facebook Messenger.
 Facebook liked this news, featuring the bot in a July 1 blog post.
Smyth plans to distinguish Trim from competition like Abe.ai and MyKAI, from Kasisto , by finding more ways to take proactive steps to handle people’s personal finances.
“Every single personal financial question or decision or transaction, I think it’s pretty clear that it would be nicer if someone else did that for you,” he said. “My ideal personal finance product involves my sitting on the couch and playing Pokémon, while someone else handles everything for me.” Trim will tell users how much they spent on Uber last month but also when a bill is due or when a person is going to be penalized with an overdraft or late fee.
Smyth envisions Trim taking on a fiduciary role and handling tasks that banks aren’t necessarily incentivized to perform, — think of credit card companies that fail to remind you your bill is due so they can collect a late fee.
“I think looking for opportunities where the incentive of existing financial providers and their customers are not fully aligned, I think those opportunities are great for Trim and other personal finance startups,” he said.
Trim connects to more than 20,000 banks, including Chase, Wells Fargo, and Bank of America.
Trim has a team of four employees based in San Francisco.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
