Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Acer Brings Tobii Eye Tracking to Four New Predator Gaming Devices Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn BERLIN–(BUSINESS WIRE)–August 31, 2016– Today at its annual IFA Global Press Conference in Berlin , Acer unveiled four new Predator gaming devices with integrated eye tracking hardware from Tobii, including the Predator 21 X, the world’s first curved screen gaming notebook. The company also revealed the world’s first three gaming monitors with integrated eye tracking, including one curved screen model intended to provide gamers the most immersive and realistic experiences seen before. The addition of these devices to Acer’s Predator gaming line make it the most comprehensive eye tracking gaming portfolio to date, accommodating the widest range of forward-thinking gamers.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160831005231/en/ Predator Z27IT 27″ Curved Screen Gaming Monitor with Integrated Tobii Eye Tracking (Photo: Business Wire) “We continually strive to push the envelope of gaming and bring it to new heights with a complete portfolio of premium Predator gaming devices that offer the most cutting-edge, transformative technologies,” said Jerry Kao, president of IT Products Business at Acer. “Predator is one of the industry’s most respected and admired gaming brands, and we are proving this true once again by bringing entirely new experiences to gamers, made possible with Tobii eye-tracking technology.” In gaming, eye tracking re-envisions what’s possible, allowing gamers to interact with their environments more seamlessly, interact with characters more realistically and even enhance immersion and user experience. Combined with curved displays, eye tracking creates groundbreaking immersive experiences. Simulator gamers, like those that play Elite Dangerous and Euro Truck Simulator 2, are able to look around freely in any direction without having to orient their character or vehicle in the same direction – the scene camera will orient itself based on the user’s gaze and attention. This eye tracking implementation, called ‘Infinite Screen’, is one of many different ways Tobii is improving realism and immersion in PC gaming.
Specifically, Acer products with integrated Tobii Eye Tracking announced today, include: Predator 21 X Curved Screen Gaming Notebook Predator Z27IT 27″ Curved Screen Gaming Monitor Predator XB251HQT 24.5″ Flat Screen Gaming Monitor Predator XB271HUT 27″ Flat Screen Gaming Monitor “Acer’s integration of eye tracking in four different gaming devices at once is the most solid demonstration of the industry’s growing belief in eye tracking gaming to date,” said Oscar Werner, president of Tobii Tech. “The Predator line is poised to set a new benchmark in hardware specifications and the experiences gamers will demand in the future.” Gamers who purchase a Predator device with Tobii Eye Tracking, have the chance to play over 40 Tobii Eye Tracking Enabled titles including Tom Clancy’s The Division and Assassin’s Creed Syndicate.
 Tobii is actively working with PC game developers and studios of all sizes to rapidly expand the Tobii Eye Tracking game portfolio and expect over 100 eye tracking titles by the end of 2017. Most recently, the company announced eye tracking integrations in Deus Ex: Mankind Divided and Master of Orion.
Please visit Tobii Apps to view the continuously updated game portfolio.
To check availability, specifications and prices in specific markets, please visit www.acer.com.
About Tobii Tobii is the global leader in eye-tracking. Our vision is a world where all technology works in harmony with natural human behavior. Tobii operates through three business units: Tobii Dynavox makes specially designed computers that are controlled by eye movement or touch screens for use by people with special needs due to spinal cord injuries, CP, ALS or other medical conditions. Tobii Pro develops and sells eye-tracking equipment and services used today by more than 3,000 companies and 2,000 research institutions, including all of the world’s 50 highest ranked universities. Tobii Tech further develops Tobii’s technology for new volume markets such as computer games, personal computers, virtual reality and vehicles. Tobii is headquartered in Sweden and is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm (TOBII). The group has around 700 employees. For more information, please visit www.tobii.com.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160831005231/en/ Tobii Tech Stephan Floyd, +1 781-223-2005 Head of Content, PR and Brand Stephan.floyd@tobii.com VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
