Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Björk holds weirdly magical live motion capture press conference to tease new virtual reality album Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Björk in motion capture form.
When it comes to the fantastical and strange, everyone is always going to have a hard time topping Icelandic singer Björk.
But today Björk took another step into the realm beyond where the rest of us live by conducting a press conference in which she appeared as a live motion capture avatar. While Björk was 1,200 miles away wearing a “mocap” (motion capture) suit in a studio at the Icelandic Media College in Reykjavik, her image was appearing in a London gallery rendered in a swirling rainbow of colors and objects.
On her Facebook page , Björk said the motion capture stream was intended to emphasize her embrace of new technology and the role virtual reality played in the creative process that led to her new album, Vulnicura.
“Technology is enabling women to work outside the already formed hierarchical systems,” she wrote. “The laptop arriving in 1999 gave me a personal studio to make ‘Vespertine,’ the touchscreen 2006 helped me map my own idiosyncratic musicology outside the classical canon and reconnect it w nature and make ‘Biophilia,’ VR is helping making a new stage free of politics where sound and vision is swirling free in 360 fully liberated.” (sic) Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The rendering of her motion capture badself today was aided by #D technology from Autodesk and Unity. The image was then digitized and streamed by engineers from London’s The Imaginarium Studios.
You can get a glimpse of it here in this video clip on her Facebook page: The album Vulnicura is set to be released later this year in VR formats.
Here’s a bit more detail on the album from a press release: Björk has long supported the convergence of music, art, and technology, embracing VR early as new medium and means for engaging fans. In September, she’s gearing up to release the full Vulnicura VR album, also developed on the Unity platform for HTC Vive, Oculus Rift and Samsung Gear headsets. But, canned VR experiences just scratch the surface of the platform’s true potential. Today’s live motion capture stream represents a major leap forward toward the near future where individuals can be placed at the center of real, live performances and entertainment experiences, from concerts to speeches and sports events, via VR.
UPDATED: Here’s a longer clip of the press conference for a better sense of the mocap streaming in action.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
