Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Patents’ search engine gets global push with launch in U.K., Japan, and 9 other markets Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Patents Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google is boosting its patents search service this week with the news that it’s adding 11 more national patent offices to the mix.
First launched in 2006, Google Patents initially only worked with searches through the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), but it was expanded to cover the European Patent Office (EPO) in 2012, followed a year later by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) and the respective patent offices for Germany, Canada, and China.
The purpose of patent search engines is to help budding entrepreneurs, inventors, or anyone working on new products establish whether anyone else has already filed for patents in the same field and determine whether they’re duplicating something that’s already been done. It’s also a useful tool for patent examiners to research “prior art” (existing inventions) when assessing a patent application.
Google Patents has now been given its biggest expansion to date, with users able to search for patents and applications from the U.K., Japan, South Korea, France, Spain, Belgium, Russia, Finland, the Netherlands, Denmark, and Luxembourg. As with its other local patent archives, the new collection is searchable in English as well as the source language, thanks to the smarts of Google Translate.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
