Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages 2K enters the VR scene with Carnival Games Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Carnival Games VR.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The midway is coming to virtual reality.
Publisher 2K has announced its first virtual reality title, a new entry in the Carnival Games series. It will come out for the HTC Vive and PlayStation VR on October 28 for $20. An Oculus Rift release will follow later this year. Analysts are predicting that VR could generate $40 billion in revenues by 2020 , so it makes sense to see a major publisher like 2K get involved.
The original Carnival Games was a surprise hit for the Nintendo Wii, being one of the few third-party games to become a major success on the motion control-based system. According to 2K, the series has sold over 9 million copies worldwide. 2K was rewarded for investing in the Wii experiment early, something it could replicate with the blossoming VR market.
“Virtual reality is an exciting new emerging platform that has the potential to enhance the way that interactive entertainment is created and experienced,” said Sarah Anderson, senior vice president of marketing at 2K, in a press release sent to GamesBeat. “As our first foray into this space, we wanted to deliver a highly accessible entertainment experience that would allow players to immerse themselves in the familiar, classic fun of our Carnival Games series. With its stylized interactive environments and all-new features, Carnival Games VR will deliver the magic of the midway like never before.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Carnival Games VR will include 12 experiences, including Ring Toss, Pop Darts, and Shooting Gallery.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
