Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Takeaway.com IPO today offers cheer in gloomy year for European exits Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Takeaway.com Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
On the tail end of the third quarter, Amsterdam-based Takeaway.com launched its IPO today, delivering some good news to a European market that has had a rough year for exits.
The company announced that it had priced its shares for an IPO that would give it a $1.1 billion valuation. From the initial price of €23, shares were up in mid-day trading to €24.79.
“I am proud that we took Takeaway.com public today,” said CEO Jitse Groen in a statement.
 “This IPO enables the company to continue the rapid growth of the past 16 years. It is also a compliment to our people who have worked so hard to develop our business from scratch to where we are now.” According to Crunchbase , the company had raised $117 million in venture capital. The public offering allowed Takeaway to raise $367 million as it seeks to fend off competition in the crowded meal delivery market. Competitors include Deliveroo, Delivery Hero, Foodora, and even UberEats.
While we’re still waiting for the tallies of IPO activity for the third quarter, the first half of 2016 saw the numbers across Europe tumble dramatically. During the first six months, there were 145 IPOs, compared to 205 for the same period a year earlier, according to PwC data. The total value of those IPOs fell by half.
Overall, a report by Tech.eu in July indicated the volume of European tech exits had fallen by about half during the first six months of the year.
Takeaway on its own isn’t likely to change this dynamic. But its IPO is at least a sign that the right companies can exit if the circumstances are favorable.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
