Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages NES Classic Edition has filters to re-create the crappy ’80s TV experience Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn NES: Classic Edition is a tiny gaming bundle.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
It’s going to be a nostalgic Christmas.
Nintendo announced new features for the Nintendo Entertainment System Classic Edition , which launches November 11 for $60. The NES Classic is a mini-version of the original console, which dominated the gaming landscape from its launch in 1985 to the end of the ’80s. While it doesn’t play cartridges, it has 30 games on its drive and connects to modern TVs via HDMI. It also has multiple filters, which enables you to play in sharp quality or re-create the experience of playing on a crappy, ’80s TV.
“To make sure every Goomba stomp looks as authentic as possible, all games can be played in three display modes,” Nintendo noted in a press release sent to GamesBeat. “With the CRT filter, a scan-line effect is added to the screen to give everything that oh-so-retro look and feel. 4-to-3 is a sharp, clean look that adheres to the original aspect ratio used by the NES. And when playing in Pixel Perfect mode, every pixel is shown as a perfect square, providing the most accurate representation of the games as they were originally designed.” “Originally designed” might be a stretch. Developers might have had the limitations of ’80s TVs in mind when they were designing their games. Still, the Pixel Perfect mode will definitely provide a clearer image than we could ever have had on our old, CRT TVs.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The NES Classic also comes with a replica of the original’s controller that you can use with the new device or NES digital titles on the Wii and Wii U. The mini system also includes digital versions of the original instructional manuals for all of its games. And, if you find passwords inconvenient, you can create digital save states at any time during your game.
The November 11 launch date makes it available just in time for the holiday season, the most lucrative time of the year for the gaming industry thanks to all the gift-giving. A lot of adults with fond memories of the original NES might be asking Santa for the Classic Edition.
The original NES was a huge hit thanks to landmark games like Super Mario Bros., The Legend of Zelda, and Metroid. Those and 27 other hits come with the Classic Edition.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
