Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter shares jump 5% on report that Google is working with Lazard on a possible bid Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Twitter stock increased more than 4 percent after a report today claiming that Google has tapped financial advisory firm Lazard to help it consider bidding on Twitter.
Google worked with Lazard for its acquisition of Apigee earlier this year, according to Bloomberg , citing an unnamed source.
Disney and Salesforce are also rumored to be evaluating their own bids on Twitter. The initial report that Google and Salesforce were both interested led Twitter stock to spike 20 percent.
In August, Twitter cofounder and board member Ev Williams told Bloomberg that “as a board member we have to consider the right options.” In July, Twitter missed expectations on revenue for the second quarter of the year, coming up with $602 million. Meanwhile, the social network’s growth rate for monthly active users has been on the decline.
Google declined to comment. A Lazard representative did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
