Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages 5 bots to try this week: HomeHero, Trump Survival, Spooky Street, Ghost Treasure Mansion, and Betalist Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Are you ready for Halloween? Will your trick-or-treating take you down a spooky street? Will your pursuit of chocolate and other treats lead you to a palatial, haunted mansion hiding treasure and ghosts? Mwahahaha! Just in time for Halloween (and the upcoming U.S. Presidential election), here are the five most popular bots this past week, as they appear on Botlist.
 Give them a try and let us know what you think.
5. Betalist ( also #5 last week ) For all product geeks and tech nerds. Browsing is dead — get what you want to hear delivered to you.
Available on Messenger VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! 4.
Escape from Spooky Street You’re trapped on Spooky Street, the scariest, most haunted street you’ve ever heard of! Not only that, but a rude ghost has turned you into a pumpkin! DANG! That sucks.
Can you get all five magical candies to reverse the spell and escape Spooky Street? Are you brave enough to face five spooky monsters in a contest of wits? Available on Kik 3.
Escape: Ghost Treasure Mansion Your rich, puzzle-obsessed uncle has died. He’s left you, his favorite relative, two things — a ouija board and a key to his palatial, haunted-looking mansion, with the promise of treasure inside. Naturally, you head over to claim your inheritance. But could this haunted-looking mansion be … haunted? By ghosts? Available on Kik 2.
Trump Survival Welcome to Trump Survival! You’ll face a series of scenarios and make life-and-death decisions throughout the day. Are you ready? Available on Messenger 1.
HomeHero HomeHero is your digital concierge for a smarter home.
He kinda drew the short straw when they were handing out super powers — he is faster than a speeding bullet, but only for helping you with home services.
Ever ask yourself: • Is my home an attractive target for burglary? • Who is the cheapest energy provider? (UK only) • Why is my Wi-Fi so slow? • How will my boiler behave this winter? Message @YourHomeHero now for instant superhero advice! Available on Messenger Popularity of the top 5 bots on Botlist is based on web traffic to individual bots’ pages appearing on the site, which currently lists more than 11,000 bots. The bot directory says it receives more than 200 submissions each week and tests their purpose, functionality, content, and overall quality before accepting them. This week’s rankings were for the period October 24-30, 2016.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
