Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AWS is setting up a second wind farm in Ohio Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon Web Services (AWS), a division of ecommerce company Amazon that provides a variety of cloud-based computing and storage services, today said that it will establish a second wind farm in Ohio to support its data centers.
The first one, located in the Buckeye State’s Paulding County, has a capacity of 100 megawatts (MW), while this new center, in Hardin County, will have 189MW of capacity, according to a statement.
 This will AWS’ fifth renewable energy site — the others are in Indiana , North Carolina , and Virginia. Amazon is also erecting a wind farm in Texas.
The news comes two weeks after the opening of us-east-2 , AWS’ second US East data center region, located in Ohio. Sure enough, the new wind farm will support both US East (Northern Virginia) and US East (Ohio).
AWS has committed to relying completely on renewable energy. It’s now past the 40 percent mark, and by the end of next year it will have passed the 50 percent mark, according to today’s statement. Google, which operates cloud infrastructure that competes with AWS, also relies on renewable energy sites to power its data centers.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! EverPower, owned by the private equity firm Terra Firma, will build, own, and operate the new site, which will open in December 2017.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
