Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Here’s how to watch Peter Thiel’s press conference to explain his support of Trump Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Even as Peter Thiel’s support for Donald Trump draws controversy in Silicon Valley circles, the enigmatic investor seems to have no doubts about which horse he is backing.
Thiel has scheduled a press conference today at 11 a.m. on the East Coast to defend his Trump support. The event will be held at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C. But anyone can watch the livestream here.
Thiel plans to open the hour-long press conference with some remarks, followed by a question-and-answer session with reporters.
Silicon Valley has overwhelmingly backed Hillary Clinton in this election, and Thiel’s endorsement of Trump has drawn considerable attention. Thiel served as a California delegate for Trump in the primaries, got a featured speaking slot at the Republican National Convention in July , and most recently donated $1.25 million to the campaign.
 The latter came after a tape leaked of Trump making sexist remarks about a decade ago.
That donation proved to be the final straw for many, with some calling on organizations such as Y Combinator and Facebook to cut ties with Thiel. Both declined to do so, saying they defended Thiel’s right to political free speech.
It seems unlikely that Thiel can put the debate to rest today. But no doubt some of Thiel’s friends and fans are hoping he can offer more context around why he’s drawn to a candidate that so many in the tech community are actively opposing.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
