Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nitrous.io is shutting down its cloud IDE on November 14 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Nitrous.io's cloud IDE.
Nitrous.io built a business around offering a cloud-based integrated development environment (IDE) in which software developers could work on source code and even share their work with teammates. However, today the startup announced in its company newsletter that the cloud IDE will go away on November 14. As of today, Nitrous will stop taking on new users.
Payments made after October 16 will be refunded, the startup said in the email.
 People with existing projects will be sent an email with a link to download their data, but after 15 days the data will be deleted.
“We will send an update on our free and open-source Nitrous Solo IDE in the coming weeks,” the company said.
There are other cloud-based IDEs, including Eclipse Orion, which was recently incorporated into the Google Cloud Shell , and Koding.
 Startup Codeanywhere also offers a cloud IDE.
The reason for Nitrous’ shutdown is not clear, and indeed its homepage doesn’t say anything about the news. But earlier this year, public cloud market leader Amazon Web Services (AWS) acquired another cloud IDE startup, Cloud9.
Some developers might not like to rely completely on a machine that’s running remotely. Nitrous does offer a Nitrogen plugin for GitHub’s open-source Atom text editor.
Nitrous.io was founded in 2012, with offices in San Francisco and Singapore. Investors include 500 Startups, Bessemer Venture Partners, CrunchFund, Draper Associates, Golden Gate Ventures, Lion Rock Capital, and Eduardo Saverin. The startup announced a $6.65 million round in March 2014.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
