Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release RedZone Maps Crime and Navigation App Breaks Through Top 5 in Apple’s App Store Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn NEW YORK–(BUSINESS WIRE)–October 31, 2016– With beta testing behind them, Zone Technologies, Inc., the creator of RedZone Maps , a GPS-driven, real time crime data aggregation and navigation map application, together with big data analytics provider Helios and Matheson Analytics, Inc. (NASDAQ: HMNY), announced today that RedZone Maps broke through the top 5 in Apple’s App Store in the U.S. navigation maps category, right behind Google Maps and Waze, last week during its successful beta test.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161031005384/en/ Social empowerment at its best! (Photo: Business Wire) RedZone Maps now provides its users with real time crime data from approximately 1,250 cities in the United States – across all state borders – showing over 500,000 crimes committed during the past 60 days and as recently as the past 24 hours. The availability of this information in a navigation map format, including information about shootings, assaults and thefts, works to keep users aware of their surroundings, whether in their own neighborhoods or traveling. RedZone plans to deploy its propriety technology worldwide, making big data of the same magnitude available to users globally. Currently, the RedZone app is available free in the Apple App store and expected to be accessible to Android users shortly.
“Our goal is to enable the RedZone Maps technology, when combined with the power of HMNY’s big data and predictive analytics capabilities, to help people avoid dangerous crime,” said Ted Farnsworth, founder of RedZone. “We have designed RedZone Maps to show real time crime data through its social listening, big data and artificial intelligence capabilities in a navigation map format. We’re not aware of any other solution that does that for its users and as a result we believe this makes RedZone the leader in this space,” Mr. Farnsworth continued.
“HMNY’s core strengths have been a great strategic fit with Red Zone Maps’ mission. HMNY’s culture has always been focused on helping and guiding its clients. Our motto is that we offer the ‘wisdom of data to see the light’, and now, RedZone Maps has enabled us to reach beyond the companies we typically serve, and help empower individuals to feel more safe and secure,” said Pat Krishnan, HMNY’s CEO.
The RedZone Maps proprietary mapping and navigation system, offering a safe route and risky route, combined with real time crime data aggregation, crowdsourcing and a social interaction component, are obvious benefits to individual users. We believe, with safety becoming an ever-increasing daily concern around the world, the leading online travel, hotels, lodging and on-demand transportation apps and websites would also benefit significantly from the RedZone Maps solution, joining the interests of individual users with their corporate interests.
About Helios and Matheson Helios & Matheson Analytics, Inc. provides information technology consulting, training services, software products and enhanced suite of services of predictive analytics. With their client roster including Fortune 500 corporations, they focus mainly on the BFSI and Technology verticals. Their solutions cover the entire spectrum of IT needs, including applications, data, and infrastructure. The company is headquartered in New York, NY. Helios and Matheson Analytics, Inc. is listed on the NASDAQ (HMNY). For more information visit us at http://www.heliosmatheson.com.
About RedZone RedZone (Zone Technologies, Inc.) is a state-of-the-art mapping and spatial analysis company with offices in the U.S. and Israel. Its eye-opening safety map app enhances mobile GPS navigation by providing advanced proprietary technology, to easily and safely guide travelers to their destinations while avoiding risky areas deemed “red zones,” due to high groupings of crime data, with safer routes generally 15% longer. More than that, the app incorporates a social media component allowing for real-time “It’s happening now” crime reporting coupled with up-to-the-minute data from over 1,400 local, state, national and global sources. Currently available to iOS users with an android version launching shortly, RedZone is available free in the App Store. More information is available on the RedZone website and the free app is available for download in the Apple App Store.
Important Information For Investors And Stockholders This communication does not constitute an offer to buy or sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval. This communication relates to a proposed business combination between HMNY and Zone Technologies, Inc. (“Zone”). In connection with the pending business combination between Zone and HMNY, HMNY has filed a definitive Information Statement on Schedule 14C with the Securities Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF HMNY ARE URGED TO READ THE DEFINITIVE INFORMATION STATEMENT AND OTHER DOCUMENTS THAT MAY BE FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. The definitive Information Statement has been mailed to stockholders of HMNY in accordance with Regulation 14C under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of these documents and other documents filed with the SEC by HMNY through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov.
 Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by HMNY will be available free of charge on HMNY’s website at www.hmny.com.
Cautionary Statement on Forward-looking Information Certain statements in this communication contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or under Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (collectively, “forward-looking statements”) that may not be based on historical fact, but instead relate to future events, including without limitation statements containing the words “believe”, “may”, “plan”, “will”, “estimate”, “continue”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “expect” and similar expressions. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this communication are forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements are based on a number of assumptions. Although HMNY’s management believes that the assumptions made and expectations represented by such statements are reasonable, there can be no assurance that a forward-looking statement contained herein will prove to be accurate. Actual results and developments may differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained herein and even if such actual results and developments are realized or substantially realized, there can be no assurance that they will have the expected consequences or effects. Risk factors and other material information concerning HMNY are described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, and other filings, including current and periodic reports, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. You are cautioned to review such reports and other filings at www.sec.gov.
Given these risks, uncertainties and factors, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements and information, which are qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. All forward-looking statements and information made herein are based on HMNY’s current expectations and HMNY does not undertake an obligation to revise or update such forward-looking statements and information to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
