Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VentureBeat is hiring a director of sales Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
We are looking for a passionate and consultative sales professional to help sell big, custom campaigns and integrated marketing solutions to leading business and technology brands. The Strategic Account Director will help drive VentureBeat’s online, custom, and events business, already at the epicenter of the startup ecosystem and wider digital-tech revolution, to further heights.
The ideal candidate has at least five years of B2B experience in the technology media marketplace. This strategic sales executive will be an instant value creator with established contacts who will help VentureBeat expand the brand’s presence and business with new and existing strategic partners. This vital talent will be responsible for prospecting, developing, and closing new business, as well as overseeing clients’ integrated marketing and advertising campaigns.
The role is at the heart of our organization: Advertising and sponsorship sales for VentureBeat’s website, events, and custom content marketing solutions ensure our success and continued growth.
The position is located in San Francisco but will require some travel. Please contact our recruitment team for further information.
Responsibilities Manage and maintain current client and agency relationships and build new partnerships with prospective clients Strong focus on new business relationships with Tier 1 media buying agencies and leading technology and business brands Observe industry and market trends and develop plans for achieving strategic goals Exceed quarterly and annual targets to drive revenue growth Assist in leading all marketing and RFP brainstorms Track campaign results to leverage and foster further partnerships with clients and to forecast future revenue growth Continually research trending and innovative ad products and bring market-leading solutions into the conversation Requirements 5 years’ experience in online media ad sales within respective territory Strong experience in B2B media preferred Existing relationships with Business/Technology and Tier 1 media buying agencies Strong sales skills, including prospecting, forecasting, pitching, presenting, and closing large deals Strong knowledge of current tech industry trends, such as messaging, artificial intelligence, AR/VR, Mobile, Games, and Cloud Working knowledge of content marketing solutions Ability to ideate dynamic, complex, and highly targeted integrated concepts, customized to the specific needs of the brand Contract negotiation experience Excellent verbal and written communication skills VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
