Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Hearthstone caster, streamer Amaz turns to Kickstarter for 2nd season of Team League Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn One Night in Karazhan.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The Blizzard-run World Championships for Hearthstone are going on right now , but you can help get a future, independent tournament get funded right now.
Jason “Amaz” Chan, a popular broadcaster and player of the market-leading digital card game, announced a second season of the Amaz Team Championships. The first Amaz Team Championships had the largest prize pool of any non-Blizzard backed Hearthstone tournament with $250,000. But the second season isn’t guaranteed. Amaz has turned to Kickstarter to help fund the tournament, seeking a goal of $206,322 (that number only looks random because it’s converted from $1.6 million Hong Kong dollars). This time, the prize pool is only starting at $100,000. However, it can go up if the Kickstarter exceeds its goal.
Like the first Amaz Team Championships, the second season will be an invitational event focusing on popular Hearthstone personalities, competitors, and streamers.
“Whether it has been through their streams, video content, or tournament participation over the years, this is my way of saying ‘Thanks for being involved in the community!'” Amaz explained in the Kickstarter page.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The $206,322 Amaz is hoping to raise isn’t just for prizes. The money will help pay for production costs, travel, securing a venue, promotion, Kickstarter rewards, and more. Speaking of Kickstarter rewards, you can pledge $9,670 to earn the highest backer title of Grand Master, which provides you and your friends travel to the event and even lets you stream with Amaz.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
