Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Expedia now has an Alexa skill for flight updates and car rentals Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Expedia customers can now use Amazon’s Alexa to ask for flight updates and rent a car, the company announced today.
The skill can also be used to ask questions about hotel bookings, flights, loyalty points balance, and rental car reservations.
The ability to buy millions of items from the Amazon marketplace has been available since July.
 While Amazon has made ground ahead of other platforms when it comes to conversational commerce, Alexa cannot currently be used to buy a plane ticket.
“Booking a hotel or a flight are not yet available. We are working hard to bring these exciting features to you soon!” the skill description from Expedia reads.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! By contrast, numerous travel bots like Mezi and Hipmunk for messaging apps like Facebook Messenger can be used to purchase plane tickets. Kayak’s and Expedia’s chatbots can also buy tickets.
Among the now more than 5,000 skills, Expedia and Kayak are some of the only ones in the Alexa Skills Marketplace with the ability to track a flight and plan a trip.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
