Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AWS brings PostgreSQL support to the Aurora database engine Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Andy Jassy talks about new capabilities in the Aurora cloud database service.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
At its re:Invent user conference in Las Vegas, public cloud infrastructure provider Amazon Web Services (AWS) today announced that its Aurora managed cloud database engine now supports the popular PostgreSQL structured database.
Amazon already lets developers store and retrieve data using PostgreSQL through its Relational Database Service (RDS). RDS added support for PostgreSQL in 2013.
 Of course, developers could also just install the open-source PostgreSQL atop AWS computing and storage infrastructure on their own. Sure enough, it will be possible to migrate PostgreSQL databases from RDS to Aurora.
PostgreSQL support is the top request from customers of Aurora, AWS chief executive Andy Jassy said today.
Today’s announcement builds on the launch of the Aurora database service in 2014. At the time it was touted as a great tool for companies that were heavily reliant on the MySQL database software. Now Aurora is becoming more powerful.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Other public clouds, including Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud Platform, offer their own relational database services.
Fortune reported on AWS’ plans for the new PostgreSQL service earlier this month.
A blog post on the news is here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
