Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AWS now offering trucks to move your data to its cloud Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn AWS Snowmobile.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
At its re:Invent user conference in Las Vegas today, public cloud market leader Amazon Web Services (AWS) unveiled the next generation of its Snowball boxes that customers can use to move lots of data to AWS.
The first version was announced at last year’s re:Invent — it had a capacity of 50TB. Then, in April of this year, AWS showed off a 80TB version.
 This time around, AWS decided to add on computing resources, which opens up new possibilities for companies that need a Snowball.
Multiple Snowball Edge boxes — each of which has a 100TB capacity and a color touchscreen — can divvy up databases with sharding, for one thing, AWS chief executive Andy Jassy said, and they can sync data to S3, too. But also, they can run new AWS software called AWS Greengrass , which effectively brings the serverless event-driven computing model of AWS Lambda outside of AWS and onto other kinds of devices, including embedded devices.
Above: AWS Snowball Edge.
But AWS isn’t stopping there. For companies that have exabytes of data — of which there are a lot, Jassy said — AWS is introducing a full-size truck containing a 45-foot shipping container in which customers can load up data.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “We’ll drive the truck over to your data center, we’ll take Snowmobile affixed to a trailer, we have power, and we’ll fiber-connect to your data center, you fill ‘er up, the truck will come back, we’ll put [the container] back on the truck, and we’ll move it back to AWS,” Jassy said.
Sending an exabyte of data to AWS data centers at a rate of 10 Gb/s would take 26 years, but using 10 Snowmobiles would take less than six months, Jassy said.
AWS Snowmobile doesn’t have an official price. But AWS chief evangelist Jeff Barr noted in a blog post that salespeople will work with interested customers, and that AWS is keen to ensure that the service “is both faster and less expensive than using a network-based data transfer model.” As for the Snowball Edge, each job costs $300 plus shipping costs, Barr wrote in a blog post.
 If you keep it for longer than 10 days, you’ll have to pay $30 per box per day. Locally run Lambda functions are free.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
