Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Kony Launches New Kony Visualizer Integrated with Amazon Web Services to Simplify and Accelerate Mobile App Development Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn AUSTIN, Texas.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–November 30, 2016– Kony, Inc.
, a leading enterprise mobility company, today announced Kony Visualizer to further simplify building mobile apps on the AWS cloud by providing pre-integrated support for the AWS Mobile SDK, along with built-in support for mobile services like Amazon Cognito, AWS Lambda, and Amazon DynamoDB. This new product, which is being launched during the Amazon Web Services (AWS) re:Invent 2016 conference in Las Vegas, is immediately available for purchase on AWS Marketplace.
As part of a re:Invent 2016 session, Kony will highlight Box as one of their early customers of the new Kony Visualizer offering. By using Kony Visualizer, Box was able to extend the value of its Box Platform offering and provide visual tools for rapid, omni-channel development of enterprise-grade mobile and web apps on AWS, which highlights the use of Box’s Platform APIs, secure content management, and rich content types, including 3D models and VR files.
“Customers today are demanding increasingly faster timeframes for developing new mobile solutions,” said Jeetu Patel, chief strategy officer and senior vice president of Box Platform. “However, development skills are always in scarce supply relative to the demand. It’s critical to have productive development tools like Kony Visualizer to bring these capabilities to mainstream IT. By leveraging the combination of Kony Visualizer along with AWS Mobile Services, we now have the leading cloud-based development environment for building mobile apps that can take advantage of the Box Platform. Box Platform makes it easy to build on Box’s innovative security, content management, and collaboration and allows developers to extend the power of Box to transform and accelerate their business.” Kony Visualizer now includes new features specifically optimized for AWS customers, including the following: AWS Mobile SDK support: Kony Visualizer now offers the ability to download and register the latest version of the AWS Mobile SDK. This provides AWS developers immediate productivity in invoking AWS mobile services directly from within Kony Visualizer’s omni-channel JavaScript development environment.
Amazon Cognito support: Kony Visualizer now offers the ability to use AWS Cognito to deliver support for multifactor authentication to your mobile apps and authenticate users through social identity providers such as Facebook, Twitter, and Google+. Kony Visualizer provides both visual pre-built component access as well as JavaScript level control of Amazon Cognito capabilities.
AWS Lambda support: Kony Visualizer now offers the ability to easily invoke AWS Lambda functions from inside the user’s mobile app. This enables high-scale distributed cloud logic without provisioning or managing servers. Kony Visualizer provides both no-code access to AWS Lambda functions through its rules-based Action Editor, as well as JavaScript level control of invoking AWS Lambda functions.
Amazon DynamoDB support: Kony Visualizer now offers the ability to store and query mobile app data using a fully managed NoSQL cloud database that provides consistent and fast service at any scale. Kony Visualizer provides both visual pre-built component access as well as JavaScript level control of Amazon DynamoDB capabilities.
AWS Marketplace purchase: Kony Visualizer is now immediately available for purchase through the AWS Marketplace and its SaaS Subscription feature, which provides an affordable user-based, frictionless way for developers to evaluate and use Kony Visualizer.
“With this new version of Kony Visualizer, Kony provides customers with a simpler and faster way to quickly access the scalable and secure environment of AWS, helping them reduce the complexity of mobile development,” said Amit Patel, general manager, Mobile Services, Amazon Web Services, Inc. “By providing pre-integrated access to AWS mobile services APIs, Kony has extended its visual development environment with more benefits for AWS customers.” These new capabilities of Kony Visualizer are built on the recently announced Kony Nitro, which is a patented, omni-channel technology that allows developers to blend together a mix of native, web and hybrid approaches to increase time to market, rather than having to learn an entirely new solution, rewrite the app or hire additional resources, which could potentially increases costs. Kony Nitro’s cross-platform JavaScript API enables enterprises to use widely available and lower cost web development resources for full 100 percent native access to underlying mobile OS capabilities, and open support for hybrid web technologies, such as Cordova, Angular and third-party JavaScript frameworks.
“Enterprises still struggle to realize the value of mobile due to the limitations of mobile app development inefficiencies and lack of scalability,” said Dave Shirk, president of Products, Strategy and Marketing, Kony, Inc. “Kony Visualizer’s enhanced support for AWS Mobile offerings help businesses address this challenge by combining the huge productivity advances of the newest version of Kony Visualizer, the patented omni-channel capabilities of Kony Nitro, with the broad reach and cost-effective scale of the AWS Cloud. It’s an unbeatable combination and value we deliver to our customers. Enterprises can now design and develop faster and cheaper than what was available before.” Kony is a Technology Partner member of the AWS Partner Network (APN) and was one of the first to achieve the AWS Mobile Competency.
 The AWS Competency Program, which is designed to connect AWS customers with qualified APN Partners that have demonstrated technical proficiency and proven success in specialized solution and vertical areas, highlights the top APN Partners with deep experience working with developers and mobile-first businesses to help build, test, analyze and monitor their mobile apps. APN Partners that achieve AWS Competencies are objectively validated as capable of offering a wide variety of services, software and solutions that run on AWS.
For more information : Product Details: Kony Visualizer/AWS Data Sheet: Kony Visualizer for AWS – Data Sheet Video: Kony Visualizer for Amazon Web Services Kony was recently named a Leader for the fourth consecutive year in the Gartner June 2016 Magic Quadrant for Mobile App Development Platforms (MADP) report. In addition, Kony was named a “Leader” and earned the highest score in the current offering category in Mobile Infrastructure Services by independent research firm Forrester Research, Inc., according to The Forrester Wave™: Mobile Infrastructure Services report.
 Forrester also named Kony a “Leader” in The Forrester Wave™: Mobile Development Platforms , Q4 2016 report.
About Kony Inc.
Kony is the fastest growing, cloud-based enterprise mobility solutions company and an industry leader among mobile application development platform ( MADP ) providers. Kony empowers organizations to compete in mobile time by rapidly delivering pre-built, omni-channel mobile apps across the broadest array of devices and systems, today and in the future, with a lower total cost of ownership. Kony’s cross-platform solution helps organizations design, build, configure and manage mobile apps to empower and better engage with customers, partners and employees. Kony was named the first place winner in CTIA’s MobITs Awards in the Mobile Applications, Development & Platforms category and included on the Inc. 500|5000 list of fastest growing private companies in America. Connect with Kony on Twitter , Facebook , and LinkedIn.
Gartner Disclaimer Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
