Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Halo gets esports reality show from ‘The Ultimate Fighter’ creators Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Halo 5: Guardians will serve at the center of a new reality show.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
One of Microsoft’s biggest gaming properties is getting its own reality show.
Halo studio 343 Industries is partnering with Pilgrim Media on a reality-competition esports series for Halo 5: Guardians. This is the first production to come out of Pilgrim’s previously announced collaboration with Hollywood studio Lionsgate and esports organization ESL to create content related to professional gaming — although the industry has seen reality-competition shows before with PlayStation’s The Tester.
 Pilgrim is responsible for the Ulitimate Fighting Championships reality-competition show The Ultimate Fighter , and it’s likely that the Halo program will have a similar vibe to that mixed-martial-arts show. With the Halo production, Microsft, Pilgrim, and Lionsgate are taking a major step into a growing esports business that some analysts predict could generate as much as $1 billion in revenue by 2018.
“We continue to be blown away by the sheer excitement surrounding esports; the scope and buzz are growing every day,” Pilgrim chief executive Craig Piligian said in a statement. “Esports and Halo fans are exceedingly passionate about gaming and devoted to their favorite titles and franchises — they are exactly the kind of audience we want to produce for.” While the show is going into production, Pilgrim did not specify when or where it will air, but the company is making it with television in mind.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “We’re thrilled to be partnering with Pilgrim on developing a reality series that will bring the intensity and extreme competition of Halo 5: Guardians esports to a television audience,” 343 Industries transmedia boss Kiki Wolfkill said. “There is no better partner than Pilgrim to give our fans insight into the world of Halo esports.” Halo’s more traditional esports tournaments will continue on, and fans can catch the Halo Championship Series Pro League Finals starting December 10 and livestreaming on Twitch.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
