Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter now lets you curate your own Moments on mobile Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn At the Twitter Flight developer conference in San Francisco on Oct. 21.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Twitter only recently opened up its Moments product to users, allowing them to curate tweets around specific events, but it was limited to just the desktop and web. However, starting today , the company is rolling out mobile support so now you’ll be able to do the same thing while on the go.
With Moments, you can bring together favorite Tweets to tell richer stories – rolling out on mobile starting today.
https://t.co/SMqIZ1Zngo — Twitter (@twitter) November 30, 2016 When you want to create a Moment , first start with a tweet you want to add. Click on the downward arrow in the tweet details and you can add it to a Moment. Do this over and over again until your curation is complete. You can search for tweets you’ve composed or liked, or by keyword. Reorder the tweets as you see fit, select a background for your Moments, and publish.
So what this means now is that if you’re at an event, whether it’s live sports, a conference, a political rally, or hanging with friends, or just somewhere that has people tweeting their thoughts, you don’t have to wait until you reach a laptop or computer to assemble a Moment. Now you can do it within the Twitter app. Of course, since it’s just rolling out now, not everyone will have it yet, so you’ll have to be patient.
It was just two months ago when Twitter began offering its self-service version of Moments. Prior to that, human editors were utilized. Now it’s democratized after there appeared to be traction — Twitter began opening up the program to more influencers, brands, and partners , and that seemed to give the feature some legs.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
