Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Feature GamesBeat Rewind 2017: Uncharted: The Lost Legacy is the best DLC/standalone/whatever it is of the year Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
I loved Uncharted: The Lost Legacy.
 I’m just not sure what to call it.
Naughty Dog planned for the this PlayStation 4 adventure to be downloadable content for 2016’s Uncharted 4: A Thief’s End. But the project’s scale grew, and The Lost Legacy turned into a standalone experience. It’s kind of a sequel, kind of a continuation of Uncharted 4. It’s hard to categorize.
But it’s great. The Lost Legacy features the same thrilling combination of climbing, exploring, and shooting as Uncharted 4. But it gives the franchise a new perspective by focusing on Chloe, a female adventurer with a multicultural heritage, instead of usual series hero Nathan Drake.
The Lost Legacy also experimented with a section that focused on a large, open map. Most of Uncharted has featured linear levels, so it was a nice way to make this entry feel different. I was surprised how easily the Uncharted formula worked in this more open-world setting. I have always defended the series’ linear nature, but The Lost Legacy now has me wondering what larger open-world Uncharted game could be like.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The Lost Legacy isn’t as long as a normal Uncharted, but it also wasn’t as short as I was anticipating. Again, its length puts it in this awkward place: not quite long enough to easily categorize as a full-blown entry in the series, but not short enough to compare to most DLC campaigns. But whatever it is, The Lost Legacy is one of 2017’s best gaming experiences.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
