Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Guest 900 Iran-educated techies have helped power top U.S. tech juggernauts Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn There have been columns at length about how President Trump’s executive action on seven Muslim-majority countries has impacted international relations and geopolitics at the macro scale. With many tech companies giving guidance to employees of different nationalities and tech leaders going on record as saying this is an enormous moral and logistical problem , there hasn’t been a clear sense of the magnitude of disruption this recent executive action has had on one of the fastest-growing and most prosperous industry sectors in America.
Capturing an approximation of this effect would involve estimating the numbers of tech workers affected by this ban in technology.
I started by researching all seven nationalities affected by the ban, but it became apparent that U.S. tech is benefitting significantly more from people trained in Iran than from those trained in the other six countries, so I’ve focused my attention there. By researching on LinkedIn and compiling a list of the Iranian universities in the top 1,000 global universities (including standouts such as Sharif University of Technology) and where their alumni work (both in terms of company and geographic location), I found that there are roughly 924 graduates of Iranian universities currently employed by 12 of the largest U.S. technology companies by market capitalization.
Given that there have been zero terror-related fatalities committed by refugees in the United States since the 1980s and, as the Cato Institute has pointed out, the chances of being killed by a permanent legal resident are about 1 in 1.3 billion and that, in fact, no foreign nationals from Iran have been implicated in a terror attack on U.S. soil, the cost/benefit curve quickly becomes clear.
To put it starkly, there are hundreds if not thousands of nationals from different countries building their lives in America, creating technology that benefits everybody, and paying taxes while contributing to the prosperity of America.
If there has been a silver lining to this whole situation, it is the constant reminder from the stories of those denied entry and those threatened that immigrants make America great.
Roger Huang is a migrant from Canada who has settled in San Francisco. He helps people around the world get high-skills digital jobs with Springboard , and in his off-time he writes technical tutorials , dances salsa, and enjoys tofu poke bowls.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
