Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Y Combinator backs the ACLU as the nonprofit challenges Trump Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Y Combinator has a history of backing nonprofits, and today it has selected an organization that’s old — but very relevant in today’s society — to get behind. The startup program has announced that it’ll be supporting the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) , adding the nonprofit to the roster of companies participating in its latest accelerator class.
“The ACLU has always been important, but has a particularly important role right now. We are honored to be able to help, and we will send some of our team to New York for the rest of the batch to assist,” Y Combinator president Sam Altman wrote, explaining the decision. As part of the relationship, the ACLU will be able to tap into the extensive network and community Y Combinator has, as well as presenting at the demo day scheduled in March.
The selection comes as the ACLU does battle with the Trump administration over the immigration ban enacted by executive order. On Saturday, the ACLU successfully requested a stay of that directive, allowing many of those detained by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection to be freed. The organization also raised a record $24 million in donations over the weekend.
Kat Manalac, a spokesperson for Y Combinator, told VentureBeat that she originally reached out to the ACLU on a project she’s working on around civic tech. Turns out the lobbying and activist group was looking for help on a project of its own, and Y Combinator and the ACLU discussed the benefits of participation in the startup program. Manalac said that not only will her organization be donating, but some team members will be assisting the ACLU personally.
Previous nonprofits that have received Y Combinator’s generosity include Watsi, Zidisha, Bayes Impact, CodeNow, CareMessage, Noora Health, One Degree, The Immunity Project, The Detroit Water Project, DemocracyOS, and 80,000 Hours.
What will investor and staunch Trump supporter Peter Thiel — a part-time partner at Y Combinator — think about this, we wonder? It’s worth noting that Y Combinator is experiencing some server issues, but you can find the entire blog post on its Facebook page or on Medium.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
