Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google launches G Suite Enterprise edition with Drive data loss prevention, S/MIME encryption Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn G Suite Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google today is announcing the launch of a new Enterprise edition of its G Suite portfolio of cloud services for organizations. The offering comes with everything in the existing G Suite Business edition, as well as other features that should be interesting for admins that want to improve security.
G Suite includes access to Gmail, Google Calendar, Google Docs/Sheets/Slides/Drive, Google Sites, and Google Forms, among other things. This package was referred to as Google Apps until September.
 In addition to G Suite Business, the other previously available G Suite service tiers are G Suite Basic and G Suite for Education, Nonprofits, or Government.
G Suite Enterprise introduces data loss prevention (DLP) for Google Drive, ensuring that sensitive information doesn’t get shared on Google’s cloud storage app. “G Suite’s DLP protection goes beyond standard DLP with easy-to-configure rules and OCR recognition of content stored in images so admins can easily enforce policies and control how data is shared,” G Suite product manager Reena Nadkarni wrote in a blog post.
 The previously announced DLP capability for Gmail is also available for G Suite Enterprise edition customers.
Google is also making it possible for organizations to use their own S/MIME encryption certificates with Gmail, and admins will be able to query Gmail logs using Google BigQuery cloud data warehousing service.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Plus, admins at organizations that pay for G Suite enterprise edition can require end users to use two-step authentication (2FA) with Security Keys like Yubico’s every time they log in. “Admins will also be able to manage the deployment of Security Keys and view usage reports,” Nadkarni wrote.
And Google is making it possible for organizations to use third-party tools for archiving data from Gmail; this goes beyond archiving with the Google Vault service.
Perhaps the most prominent competitor of G Suite Enterprise edition is the Office 365 Business subscriptions from Microsoft. Microsoft announced S/MIME encryption support in Office 365 in 2014.
 DLP is available for several Office 365 apps, including OneDrive for Business. Admins can allow employees to use 2FA with Office 365. And Microsoft lets people run queries on Exchange data in Power BI business intelligence tool and archive email data using third-party offerings.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
