Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Live Mobile advertising: Stop fraud and step up clicks (VB Live) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Make this the year you stop letting fraudulent bots burn through your budget and start maximizing the power of mobile advertising with must-click messaging. Join our VB Live event to learn how to stay in front of your audience, ahead of your competitors, and on top of fraud.
Register here for free.
An impressive 59.5 percent of Google’s net global ad revenues will come from mobile ads this year. By next year, that number will shoot up to three quarters of their revenue. And if Google’s got it going on, you know it’s a major industry trend affecting the rest of us.
Mobile app monetization still has major untapped potential, with more canvasses opening up for mobile advertising than ever. For instance, over 2.5 billion people have at least one messaging app — a number that’s expected to reach 3.6 billion, or just about half of the human race, in just the next couple of years.
The problem is that with way more money and more comprehensive campaigns, marketers are throwing the doors wide open to fraud. Major mobile app install and engagement campaigns to attract loyal users are big, juicy targets that are attracting the attention of tech swindlers intent on latching on and sucking your budget dry.
In 2016, it was estimated that mobile app marketers lost upwards of $100 million due to app install and engagement advertising fraud. The liars and the cheaters are getting one over on us because they’re getting more sophisticated with every new OS update, learning new tricks to dupe advertisers into paying for both installs of fakery and in-app engagements of lies.
It’s everything from falsified click data to paid installs from counterfeit devices, and even fraudulent and simulated in-app events (CPA fraud). And the damage doesn’t stop there, because the impact of these false installs and events on lookalike targeting and retargeting is staggering.
Sure, the news sounds grim, but the market is fighting back, from increasingly sophisticated verification tools to collaborations with publishers in order to pinpoint specific impressions, categorize the problem, and snag actionable data in real time.
For mobile advertising, the rewards outnumber the risks, with engagement opportunities blowing open the gates, and video and 360-advertising creating new audience dynamics while crackdowns on fraud continue.
So make this the year you stop letting fraud take a bite out of your budget, and turn your mobile advertising into must-click moments. Join our latest live, interactive VB Live event for an in-depth look at how to stay in front of your audience, ahead of your competitors, and on top of fraud.
Don’t miss out! Register here for free.
In this VB Live event, you’ll: Learn what works and what doesn’t in 2017’s mobile advertising arena Mitigate the mobile advertising fraud risk in your own applications Create the most engaging mobile advertisements for savvy app patrons Use video and 360 advertising to stay abreast of the latest trends in mobile advertising Speakers: James Peng , Head of Mobile and Social Acquisition, Match Group Stewart Rogers , Director of Technology, VentureBeat Rachael Brownell, Moderator, VentureBeat This VB Live event is sponsored by Adjust.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
