Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Your Amazon Echo will soon unlock doors Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon debuted a Door Lock API today that gives the makers of locks connected to the internet the power to lock or unlock doors with Alexa. The API is part of the Alexa Skills Kit.
As part of the launch, smart locks from Schlage, Yale, Kwikset, and Z-wave will use the API.
August and Vivint smart locks, which were customized to interact with Alexa last year , will also use the Door Lock API, according to an Amazon spokesperson. The August Home Alexa skill can still be used to lock and unlock doors.
If the prospect of unlocking doors with your voice freaks you out, rest easy. While the Door Lock API makes its debut today so you can say “Alexa, lock my front door,” the ability to unlock doors with your voice is not yet available.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “We’re currently working on a variety of security and safety tools within the Door Lock API in order to support unlock controls in a secure manner. We will not launch unlock support until those security requirements and options are in place,” said an Amazon spokesperson in an email to VentureBeat.
Amazon declined to share more information about the kinds of “security and safety tools” being built into the Door Lock API.
One feature that could improve security for devices that use the Door Lock API: the ability to distinguish between voices. On Monday, Time quoted an anonymous source familiar with Amazon’s Alexa strategy who said Amazon is currently working to give Alexa the ability to set certain commands to specific voices.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
