Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages HTC’s newest virtual reality games include Ping-Pong in VR Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
HTC kicked off the Game Developers Conference with demos of new apps, including a VRSports app that lets you play Ping-Pong in virtual reality on the HTC Vive VR headset.
The titles will join the 1,300 that are already available on the Vive, which was voted the top development platform for VR based on a survey by the GDC. HTC is creating the titles both internally and sourcing them from external sources in order to boost demand for VR, which is off to a somewhat slow start.
I played a couple of games of ping pong on the Vive, and it was pretty responsive. I wouldn’t say it was as easy as playing in real life, since it’s hard to time your swing when the ball is coming straight at you. But I did reasonably well, and won my second game against the computer opponent.
Above: VRSports includes a Ping-Pong game.
The game is part of a VRSports title that features games such as tennis. It comes out on the Viveport store on March 14. Sausalito-based Free Range created the physics behind the game.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! I also played around with MakeVR, a 3D modeling tool that lets you grab 3D objects and design things in VR. Spun out from Sixense, MakeVR is powered by a computer-aided design engine. You can take the designs and put them on the asset stores or 3D print them. Controlling your design tool is simple, where you use the touch controls to manipulate objects or call up a menu of various tools. It launches on March 27 on the Viveport store.
Above: Front Defense I got sweaty playing Front Defense, a room-scale first-person shooter. In this World War II game, you defend your machine-gun nest or bunker. I played the third level, where I started out with a 50-caliber machine gun, a Tommy gun, grenades, and a bazooka. As with other shooters, it’s a physical game. You have to pick up a gun with one hand, using the touch control. And you use your other hand to physically pull a clip out when you are out of bullets. Then you jam in a new clip and start shooting again.
It takes some getting used to, as you have to drop a gun and switch to another, depending on the kind of enemies attacking you from all directions. The title comes out on Viveport Arcade in April and then it hits the whole market in June.
As for why the Vive has risen to VR’s top platform, Joel Breton, head of Vive Studios, credited the company’s high-quality touch controls and room-scale VR, as well as its platform agnostic approach, where it doesn’t lock down content on its own platform.
Breton said the company has 25 games coming from both internal and external studios.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
