Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google brings Keep to G Suite, launches Docs integration Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Keep on the web.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google today is announcing the addition of the Google Keep notetaking app to its G Suite portfolio of cloud services for organizations. Now employees at companies that pay for G Suite (formerly known as Google Apps) can use Keep for school and work projects right alongside Google Docs, Sheets, Slides, Forms, Gmail, Google Calendar, Hangouts, Google Drive, and Google Sites.
Plus, Google is bringing Keep right into Google Docs.
“While in Docs on the web, access the Keep notepad via the Tools menu. Your Keep notes will appear in a side panel within Docs,” Google product manager Mario Anima wrote in a blog post.
From there you can drag and drop a note from the side panel into your document. You can also create a new note from the side panel — or highlight text in the document, right-click on it, and select “Save to Keep notepad” to bring your text into a new Keep note. Google makes sure to include an automatic link back to the document inside the note, Anima wrote. This is available to free users of Google services as well as people who work at organizations that pay for G Suite, a Google spokesperson told VentureBeat in an email.
Above: The new Google Keep integration in Google Docs.
More generally, the move to bring Keep into the Google lineup of cloud services for businesses makes another tool available for different types of people and use cases. Microsoft did the same thing but went in the opposite direction with OneNote in 2014 when the app became available for free. OneNote remains available for Office 365 business subscribers, too.
Meanwhile Dropbox offers Paper, Box offers Notes, Salesforce offers Quip, and Evernote offers … Evernote.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
