Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Eventbrite acquires competitor Nvite Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Eventbrite acquires Nvite.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Eventbrite, the event ticketing startup valued at just over $1 billion, has acquired Nvite , a smaller competitor. Nvite, based in Washington, D.C., had raised $1 million in funding in 2014 from a group of local investors.
An Eventbrite spokeswoman confirmed the deal and provided the following statement: We’re excited to welcome Nvite to the family to join us in our pursuit to of helping millions of Eventbrite customers better market themselves and their events. They’ve been a valuable partner for some time through our open API and we’re excited to be taking this relationship to the next level. We’re inspired by their design prowess and the opportunity to bring a more customizable and branded experience to our customers.
The deal value was not disclosed. It’s the second acquisition for Eventbrite in recent months. In February, the company acquired Ticketscript, a European ticketing provider. At the same time, the company launched a new product serving music venues called Eventbrite Venue.
Eventbrite, which has been named as an IPO candidate in recent years, touts itself as the largest event technology company in the world based on the number of event organizers and the number of events it hosts on its platform. The company plans to process $3 billion in gross ticket sales this year.
The acquisition comes as Eventbrite loses a high profile client. Earlier this week, Tough Mudder, the race company, announced it had switched to ACTIVE Network, a provider of event technology for races. Tough Mudder represented less than 1% of Eventbrite’s revenue.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
