Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Estonia’s Funderbeam to expand its blockchain-powered startup financing platform to Asia Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Estonian startup Funderbeam has announced that it’s taking its crowdfunding service for startups outside of Europe for the first time.
Speaking at the Slush conference in Japan this week, Funderbeam CEO Kaidi Ruusalepp said the company had raised $2.15 million from Japanese investor and incubator Mistletoe to fund the expansion.
“Our vision has always been to become the global stock exchange for startups,” said Ruusalepp on the stage. “We’ve built the world’s first blockchain-powered always-open exchange, and now it’s time to scale outside of Europe.” Funderbeam operates essentially like a private stock exchange for startups. A company that joins Funderbeam can give shares to investors, who can then trade them with other investors on the Funderbeam platform, with identity and stock being verified through the blockchain. Since its launch in 2014, the company says it has helped startups raise $2.1 million from investors in 80 countries.
In general, it’s an attractive option for entrepreneurs in regions where venture capital and other forms of risk investment can be hard to come by. Funderbeam said it will partner with Mistletoe to develop a more targeted strategy to reach Asian-Pacific startups.
Funderbeam itself has now raised about $7.36 million, including a little more than $452,000 from investors on its own platform.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
