Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitch releases trailer for its competitive Big Buck Hunter documentary, Ironsights Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Even hunting virtual animals can get you a following online.
Twitch today released the trailer for Ironsights , the company’s first in-house mini-documentary. Twitch is a live-streaming site that attracts more than 100 million users a month. Now, it is creating these documentaries to showcase its community. The full film will debut on Twitch on April 7.
“There are a lot of amazing stories to tell about the Twitch community, which rarely get the attention they deserve,” said Marcus “djWHEAT” Graham, director of Twitch Studios, in a press release sent to GamesBeat. “With Twitch Studios, we are looking to shine a light on these stories and celebrate our community. A great example of this is Ironsights , which is how Sara Erlandson, one of our community members, made a name for herself in the highly competitive Big Buck HD scene.” Big Buck HD is an arcade hunting game. The Big Buck Hunter series started in 2000 and has become a fixture in arcades and bars.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The 22-year-old Erlandson was a bar owner herself in Wisconsin. The 22-minute documentary is about her traveling to the Big Buck World Championship in Austin, Texas.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
