Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages ProBeat: Samsung bravely gives the Galaxy S8 a headphone jack Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn If Apple had “ courage ” last September to announce the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus without a headphone jack, then Samsung this week was brave to unveil the Galaxy S8 and Galaxy S8+ with a headphone jack. In short, Samsung didn’t copy Apple just for the sake of copying Apple.
By removing the headphone jack, Samsung could have kept its phones the same thickness as Apple did or even shaved off a few precious millimeters. Instead, the company made the S8 and the S8+ slightly thicker than their predecessors.
By removing the headphone jack, Samsung could have launched a line of wireless headphones and then sold them separately like Apple did.
 Instead, the company included $99 AKG by Harman earbuds in the box.
By removing the headphone jack, Samsung could have told customers that wireless is the future, like Apple did.
 Instead, the company is apparently including a feature that allows streaming music to two headphones at once.
Samsung wants to “ overcome Apple ” — but it’s not going to do it by making decisions that inconvenience its customers.
Smartphones should shed the headphone jack when a superior alternative has emerged. Apple is showing that it believes the way to get users to embrace alternatives is by removing the original functionality. Samsung is showing it believes in offering alternatives alongside the original functionality and letting the best option win.
Apple tells customers what they want. Samsung listens to customers and overdelivers.
Nothing lasts forever, but there’s more than one way to usher in the future.
ProBeat is a column in which Emil rants about whatever crosses him that week.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
