Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Total War: Warhammer II hits PC this year to follow up the breakout original Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
One of Sega’s best games from last year is getting a sequel, but the company still doesn’t plan on giving it the name it deserves.
Total War: Warhammer II (yes, it’s still not Total Warhammer) will hit PC this year, according to Sega and developer Creative Assembly. Like the original , which debuted in May, the sequel will feature the setting and creatures of Games Workshop’s Warhammer table-top games. Like the other Total Wars, Warhammer and Warhammer II are about micromanaging large-scale platoons in epic skirmishes. This time around, however, the game will focus on new races from the The Old World, a mysterious continent to the west of the events of the first game.
Expect to play as the High Elves, Dark Elves, and Lizardmen in Warhammer II. Creative Assembly is also planning to keep the fourth race a surprise until a future date. The Old World will also feature landscapes that include islands, hinterlands, swamps, and jungles.
“We’re thrilled to see the sequel to last year’s smash hit Total War: Warhammer coming later this year,” Games Workshop licensing boss Jon Gillard said in a statement. “Sega and The Creative Assembly continue to astound us with their ability in crafting the Warhammer Fantasy Battles world in further glorious pageantry, with races never realized on this scale before in a video game. We are proud to be in partnership with them on this next great step in the franchise.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! If it seems like a quick turnaround for Total War: Warhammer II to so quickly follow the original, that’s because Creative Assembly, Sega, and Games Workshop were always planning this as a three-part saga.
“Total War: Warhammer II represents the next step in our trilogy, our vision for the most incredible fantasy strategy series ever made,” Total War: Warhammer II director Ian Roxburgh said. “The success of the first game has increased our ambition; we’re not only going to deliver a thrilling campaign in the sequel but also an additional combined campaign, the biggest so far, for owners of both.” That combined campaign will launch for free for anyone who owns both games.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
