Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages 5 Alexa skills to try this week – 4/29/17 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Amazon Echo Dot Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Below are five Alexa skills you ought to try this week, selected from the Trending, New, Top Enabled, and Customer Favorites This Week categories from the Alexa Skills Store.
In Alexa news this week, Amazon announced the release of Echo Look , an Alexa-enabled device with a camera that can recommend what clothes to wear. Alexa skills makers were also given new voice app features for Alexa to speed up, slow down, or whisper.
Consumer Reports New this week, this skill gives you access to the 4,000 thorough reviews done by Consumer Reports, covering car seats for babies, electronics, dishwashers, and a range of other appliances. The skill can point you to the top-rated appliance for more than 4,000 categories.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! NBA Also new this week, the National Basketball Association (NBA) released an Alexa skill that delivers NBA playoff score or schedule updates.
This follows the release last week of the Warriors Facebook Messenger bot for the playoffs, announced at the annual F8 developer conference earlier this month.
DineTime This skill will tell you about line wait times at popular restaurants and even hold a place in line for you at participating restaurants.
1-2-3 Math This game teaches basic addition, subtraction, division, and other forms of math. Though it’s new to the skills store, 1-2-3 Math is already growing popular and is similar to other educational skills out there, like Magoosh Vocabulary Builder and Brainy Bee.
Smack Talker Not every personality made for intelligent assistants or voice apps is a courteous butler type. This skill was made to talk trash to your friends. It’s also equipped with a fair number of “Yo mama” snaps.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
