Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nintendo won’t have an E3 press event again, but plenty of others will Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Nintendo president Tatsumi Kimishima..
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Nintendo chief Tatsumi Kimishima announced last night that the Japanese game company will not hold a large-scale press conference again at the Electronic Entertainment Expo in June in Los Angeles.
That’s par for the course for Nintendo, which also didn’t have a large in-person press event last year. I think it’s a little sad and probably a bad move, considering it has a new console this year in the Switch, and all of its competitors are going to do their events. If Nintendo does the same as last year, it will keep its booth on the E3 show floor. It also had a Smash Bros. tournament during E3 last year.
Starting in 2013, Nintendo started skipping theater events and going with Nintendo Direct and livestreams.
So far, Electronic Arts has pulled out of the show floor, and it will have a fan event in Hollywood. EA will livestream that event starting earlier than anyone else. It will start EA Play at 12 p.m. on Saturday, June 10.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: Bethesda E3 showcase Bethesda, meanwhile, just said it will do a press event in at 6:30 p.m. Sunday, June 11, in downtown Los Angeles. Bethesda mixes both fans and press in the same event. Microsoft has scheduled its press event for 2 p.m. on Sunday, June 11.
Sony hasn’t set its press event time yet.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
