Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon’s Alexa can now add events to your iCloud calendar Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Amazon Echo Dot Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon today announced that owners of Amazon Alexa-enabled devices may now speak with the AI-powered assistant to add events to their Apple iCloud calendar.
This iCloud addition follows an ongoing effort to allow Alexa to access major calendar services. Since March, tens of millions of G Suite , Outlook, and Office 365 account users have gained access to add events or check their calendar with Alexa.
To link an iCloud account with Alexa, go to the Settings tab in the Alexa app. Once its enabled, you can say things like “Alexa, what’s on my calendar today?” or “Alexa, add brunch with Rick Ross at 11 a.m. to my calendar.” If you haven’t been back to the Alexa app recently, it’ll probably look a lot different. That’s because a series of new features for the intelligent assistant has launched in recent weeks.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Earlier this month, owners of Amazon Echo and Echo Dot gained the ability to make phone calls and send messages to people using the iOS or Android Alexa app. Push notifications are also coming soon.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
