Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft’s Draft helps developers adopt Kubernetes Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Microsoft office sign.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Microsoft is making it easier for developers to get started with Kubernetes, the open source container orchestration tool. On Wednesday, the company launched Draft , which is designed to streamline the setup of a containerized application.
When a developer first invokes Draft from the command line, the tool will analyze an application’s code, detect what language is being used, and then automatically generate the source files needed to get it ready to run on a Kubernetes cluster. It’s meant to enable developers who have no knowledge of Docker or Kubernetes to get started with those tools early in their development workflow.
That’s a key problem to address, because while savvy pilot teams are able to get up and running with containers easily, it’s hard to scale that knowledge out to an entire organization.
“This stuff is way too hard,” said Gabe Monroy, a program management lead at Microsoft. “The conceptual barrier is way too difficult, and people don’t know how to get started with it.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Once Draft is set up, developers just have to run the draft up command to have their application deployed to a Kubernetes cluster. While it’s possible for devs to target a cluster running on their personal computer, the power of Draft is its ability to deploy an application on a remote cluster running in the cloud or an on-premises datacenter.
Containerization allows developers to build more portable and scalable applications, which is important for operating in modern cloud environments. However, tools like Kubernetes (which help with the deployment and management of applications that use multiple containers) can have a steep learning curve. That’s where Draft is supposed to come in.
Draft is the brainchild of Deis, a company that Microsoft acquired earlier this year to help simplify the use of containers. It also shows the extent to which Microsoft is willing to support Kubernetes, a tool that originated with Google and has rapidly gained popularity. In addition to the Deis acquisition, Microsoft also employs Brendan Burns, one of the co-creators of Kubernetes.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
