Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Miso Happy augmented reality app sticks your face on AR cartoons Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Miso Happy! Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Miso Happy is a new augmented reality app that captures a cartoon version of your face and sticks it on a cartoon character in an AR environment.
The app is the brainchild of Futurefly , a Helsinki-based startup whose mission is to create light-hearted apps that go viral. Miso Happy extracts a 3D version of your face from a selfie, and then the AR app puts your face on animated characters that perform antics in the real world. It’s not so different from putting cat ears on a person in Snapchat, which has proven to be enormously popular.
Available on iOS (with an Android release scheduled for later in 2017), Miso Happy creates a fully animated 3D face after snapping just one front-facing selfie. Users can then select from a collection of animated stickers (that will now have their 3D face on them) and capture photo or video of themselves performing in the real world. Created scenes can be further decorated with 2D stickers and text before sharing on any messaging or social media channels.
You can become anything from a Glam-Rock guitarist to a shy Anime Schoolgirl. Futurefly will add more animated characters, which will appear in the app automatically, without the need of an update.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! You can also point your phone’s camera anywhere and capture photo or video of your surroundings, with your animated character performing in it. Users fully control their characters and can position them using pinch, zoom, or rotation on their 3D axis. Miso Happy also lets you decorate captured scenes with 2D stickers and text and allows users to share these creations to SMS, Snapchat, Facebook, Messenger, Instagram, save to the camera roll, and so forth.
Oskari “Ozz” Häkkinen, founder and chief product officer at Futurefly, said in a statement, “Miso Happy has been a super fun, but very challenging project. We’ve been trying to crack the face-tech thing for a while now. With each version we thought we were there, but testers weren’t happy enough with the results. But, we did it finally and managed to solve the challenge of your face in AR, which is essential for content to feel relevant and worth sharing. This is just the start, Miso Happy opens the doors to now do much more in the augmented reality and holographic content space.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
