Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Mobile advertisers are falling in love with ‘playable ads’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn AdColony's survey says playable ads are on the rise.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Mobile advertisers are warming up to “playable ads,” or mobile advertisements that allow a player to experience part of a game immediately. That’s one of the findings of AdColony ‘s app install marketing survey.
AdColony found that 71 percent of advertisers find playable ads to be effective. Forty-five percent said that playable ads were what they are most excited about in 2017, though only 4 percent of budgets are currently going to playable ads. But just 31 percent of advertisers have found meaningful effectiveness so far with these ads. (That means the market is promising, but small at the moment). Startups serving the space include mNectar.
Above: Losers include traditional media.
The report identified the advertising formats that are on the rise and those on the wane. Several years ago, app commercials during the Super Bowl suggested that traditional media would benefit from mobile ad spending. But advertisers are shifting to formats that enable better tracking and reporting and have measurable outcomes.
As a result, 58 percent of advertisers say they are reducing their spending on TV ads. Sixty-eight percent are reducing spending on out-of-home ads, such as billboards. Seventy percent are reducing money spent on radio, and 70 percent are reducing money spent on print ads.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The survey is the seventh of its kind since 2013. It provides insights, benchmarks, and trends from the top 250 grossing app developers. About 75 percent of respondents to the survey were game developers, while 21 percent were makers of non-gaming apps. The remaining 4 percent are publishers who develop both gaming and non-gaming apps.
Above: The winners ad campaigns include video ads and new channels.
The winners in the ad campaign battle include video ads, which account for 50 percent of all campaign spending. Full-screen video is ranked as the most-effective ad format.
“Top advertisers understand that there’s nothing more powerful than sight, sound, and motion to captivate a consumer’s attention and drive quality installs,” said Brian Buskas, chief creative officer at AdColony, in a statement. “That’s why video accounts for three of the four most effective app install formats listed by advertisers, and it’s why video now accounts for 50 percent of their total advertising spend.” Teams that work on driving app installs are growing. The number of 10-person teams among the 250 top-grossing app developers has nearly tripled since last fall, and nearly 70 percent of app install marketers are on teams of four or more.
As teams grow, campaigns are being optimized more frequently. Forty-nine percent of teams optimize their campaigns at least once a day, compared to only 30 percent two years ago. And as campaigns become more global (66 percent), competition for installs has increased. Advertisers are increasingly turning to outcome-driven key performance indicators.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
