Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Obsidian’s Pathfinder Adventures is the latest mobile game to journey to PC Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Pathfinder Adventures is coming to PC.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Obsidian Entertainment is bringing its mobile release to PC, a platform it has plenty of experience with.
The developer announced today that Pathfinder Adventures is coming to PC and Mac on June 15. The adaptation of the Pathfinder Adventure Card Game (itself an adaption of a pencil-and-paper role-playing game) came out for mobile last year as a free-to-play app with in-app purchases. The iOS version is the No. 403 ranked card game in the Apple App Store, according to App Annie.
Gamers best know Obsidian for PC and console role-playing games like Pillars of Eternity and Fallout: New Vegas. This move for Pathfinder Adventures could make it available to Obsidian’s core fan base.
“With Pathfinder Adventures we are bringing the magic of the award-winning tabletop card game to your PC, letting you easily play any time you want,” said Obsidian Entertainment chief executive officer Feargus Urquhart in a press release sent to GamesBeat. “I’ve always loved the way Pathfinder Adventure has brought what I enjoy in tabletop RPGs to card games, and I am very proud of how we have captured the depth of the game, while adding in options to expand upon the experience for both newcomers and lovers of the tabletop game alike.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Obsidian is also working on Pillars of Eternity II: Deadfire , which earned more than $4 million on crowdfunding site Fig. The RPG sequel is set to come out in 2018.
Adventures isn’t the only upcoming video game based on the Pathfinder brand. Owlcat Games is working on a full-blown computer role-playing game based on the franchise called Pathfinder: Kingmaker.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
