Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Gmail enterprise users get earlier phishing detection, malicious link and external reply warnings Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Gmail Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google today announced an update to Gmail aimed at businesses. Three security features are rolling out to the email service: early phishing detection using machine learning, click-time warnings for malicious links, and unintended external reply warnings. The first two already exist for Gmail users and are now being made available to enterprises, while the last one is completely new.
Gmail already uses machine learning to block spam and phishing messages from showing up in your inbox — “with over 99.9 percent accuracy,” Google claims. Early phishing detection is a dedicated machine learning model that selectively delays messages to perform rigorous phishing analysis and further protect user data from compromise. For those worried about Gmail delaying too many emails, Google is promising that “less than 0.05 percent of messages on average” will be affected and that the delay will be no more than four minutes.
The detection models use Google’s Safe Browsing service , which provides lists of URLs that contain malware or phishing content to Chrome, Firefox, and Safari browsers, as well as to internet service providers (ISPs). By leveraging techniques such as reputation and similarity analysis on URLs, Gmail can generate new URL click-time warnings for phishing and malware links, adapting more quickly than manual systems ever could and improving over time, Google promises.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Lastly, with the goal to help prevent data loss, Gmail now also displays unintended external reply warnings to users. If you try to respond to someone outside of your company domain, you will receive a quick warning to make sure you intended to send that email. Using contextual intelligence, Gmail will not display these warnings to recipients that are existing contacts or someone you interact with regularly.
Gmail is also getting new built-in defenses against ransomware and polymorphic malware. Putting all of the above together, Google estimates that Gmail will now block “millions of additional emails that can harm users.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
