Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AWS launches turbocharged cloud virtual desktop Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Amazon Web Services stickers.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon Web Services has launched a new cloud virtual desktop offering that provides users with a turbocharged machine they can access over the internet. The WorkSpaces Power bundle offers users four virtual CPUs, a whopping 16GiB of RAM (1GiB is roughly 1.074GB), and 275GB of total storage.
The bundle is meant for developers, data analysts, and other people who want compute- and memory-heavy lifting to get their work done. As you might expect, the bundle commands a premium price.
Users will have to pay $78 per month for a Power bundle WorkSpace running in AWS’ US-East region in Northern Virginia. That’s $43 more per month than a Standard bundle, which offers 2 virtual CPUs, 4GiB of memory, and 130GB of total storage. (Customers can also choose to pay $19 per month and 68 cents an hour for a Power bundle, if they don’t expect to use the WorkSpace very frequently.) It’s part of the company’s continued expansion of WorkSpaces, a popular product that enables companies to hook employees up with virtual Windows machines that only exist in an AWS data center. The new Power bundle means that cheap, slow machines can behave like high-powered laptops that cost much more — provided they have a high-speed connection to AWS’s cloud.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! One of the other key benefits to these machines is that they have low latency access to data stored with AWS. For example, it’s possible to use a WorkSpace to do quick analysis on large amounts of data stored in the AWS Simple Storage Service, since a machine running in an Amazon data center can access that information much more quickly.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
