Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Analysis Redfin files for IPO in search of new home on Nasdaq Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Redfin, an online brokerage for the residential real estate market, filed to go public late Friday. Redfin plans to list its shares on Nasdaq under the ticker RDFN. Redfin’s filing said it plans to raise $100 million, although this figure is often included as a placeholder ahead of a roadshow.
The company’s online agents use its technology to offer commissions it says are well below traditional brokerages. In a letter to shareholders included in the prospectus, Redfin described itself as “rabid squirrels on a mission to make real estate better, and to treat everyone we work with along the way respectfully.” The Seattle-based company said its revenue grew 44 percent year over year to $59.9 million in the first quarter of 2017 and posted a net loss of $28 million, against a net loss of $24.4 million in the year ago period. Last year, the company saw revenue grow by 43 percent to $267 million and its net loss decrease to $22.5 million from $30.2 million in 2015.
The company said its cash flow last quarter was a negative $22 million and that it had $38 million in cash on hand as of March 31.
The prospectus included a disclosure that the company began testing last quarter an “experimental” service called Redfin Now, in which Redfin buys homes directly from sellers and resells them to buyers. “Customers who sell through Redfin Now will typically get less money for their home than they would listing their home with a real estate agent, but get that money faster with less risk and fuss,” the filing said.
Redfin says it has no specific plans for the IPO proceeds, but plans to keep the money in short-term investments for use in general corporate purposes, including technology and marketing. Goldman Sachs and Allen & Co. are listed as lead underwriters of the offering.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
