Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Hearthstone’s top game designer: ‘No intention to adjust Primordial Glyph’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A Pyroblast for 8 mana? Why, certainly! Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Every set that Blizzard’s Team 5 design group introduces to Hearthstone has a handful of cards that players love and hate: Think Dr. Boom, Reno Jackson, or Patches the Pirate. These are all Legendaries, the rarest of the game’s cards, and you can have just one copy of each in your deck. But one of the current set’s most disliked cards isn’t one of these ultra-rare cards ( though this one is ).
One of Journey of Un’Goro’s most hated cards is Primordial Glyph, a Mage spell. It’s an Epic card, thus it’s not that hard to acquire, and at 2 mana, it’s cheap. Combine it with its power — Discover a spell, then reduce its cost by 2 mana — you can see why it’s drawing ire. Not only could it give the caster a 1-cost Frostbolt, a 4-cost Blizzard, or an 8-cost Pyroblast, Primordial Glyph doesn’t give the opponent any information on what the spell could be. So foes have no idea what to prepare for.
I asked Hearthstone principal game designer Mike Donais if Blizzard had any intentions to change Primordial Glyph to give opposing players some clue as to the card the caster draws.
“It is really challenging to play around Primordial Glyph. Balancing the odds of each card coming out is really tough. However, looking at the data, the power level of the card is medium, so at this time, there is no intention to adjust Primodial Glyph,” Donais said. “In addition, lots of people are enjoying playing the card. If we get a lot of negative feedback in the future, we can discuss changing it like we did with The Caverns Below.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! [Hearthstone] Primordial Glyph Is Terrifying: https://t.co/5SJzL7Nw4U via @YouTube — TSM Kripparrian (@Kripparrian) May 11, 2017 I followed up by asking if even if Blizzard sees Primordial Glyph as a card with a medium power level, does Blizzard worry about how a number of players — including some highly regarded streamers and esports competitors — don’t like how little information it gives them. Donais dove into the role randomness and skill play in card games such as Hearthstone.
“Powerful random effects have always been part of Hearthstone. When we don’t have cards that provide a varied gameplay experience, games can sometimes feel ‘same-y.’ People sometimes mistake randomness and skill as being on a scale, where having more of one means you end up with less of another. That’s just not true; you can have high-skill high-luck games and games that have low-luck and low-skill,” Donais said. “You really need to be great at problem solving when games play out differently every time, since you have to figure out how to use a new set of cards and apply them to their maximum efficiency in each game. When you know exactly what will play out, you only need to solve the problem once, and then execute that solve every time you run into the situation.
“That’s not to say all forms of randomness are good for Hearthstone, but this kind of randomness, which gives players opportunities to adapt and make decisions, feels great.” Well, it may not feel great to everyone. Just ask Hearthstone pro player Navi of the Gale Force esports group.
being a primordial glyph gamer is worse than being a weeb — Alex (@Navi00T) May 30, 2017 GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
