Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Paradox Interactive acquires Age of Wonders dev Triumph Studios Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Paradox is getting into the wonderment business.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Paradox Interactive is adding more talent to its stable of strategy developers. The company revealed today that it has acquired Triumph Studios, which is the team responsible for the turn-based strategy game Age of Wonders.
Paradox also owns all of Triumph’s assets as well in a deal worth $4.5 million (4 million euros) with the potential for $24 million extra depending on future performance.
Triumph Studios is now the fourth major Paradox studio, and with its location in The Netherlands, it is the first office outside of Sweden for the publisher. Paradox chief executive Fredrik Wester explained to GamesBeat that this represents a step forward for the company and also a challenge. But the company thought Triumph was the right opportunity to expand its footprint outside of its home country due to the developer’s pedigree.
“[Triumph fits into Paradox] like a glove,” said Wester. “Not only in the overlap of fans, but we have a lot of hardcore fans of the Age of Wonders series among the people at Paradox.” I asked Wester to explain exactly what Paradox was buying, and he revealed that it was way more than just the Triumph name.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “It’s Triumph Studios — lock, stock and barrel — but most of all, it’s a lot of new great insights into the turn-based strategy gaming niche and a new genre within our own where we can discover more,” the CEO explained.
Paradox doesn’t know if it’ll have to change anything with Age of Wonders, but the publisher believes it can merge its knowledge with its new acquisition to make everyone involved better.
“We bought Triumph because it’s a great company making great games,” said Wester. “Hopefully we can add a few insights from Paradox but we have full faith in the Triumph team to deliver great games.” In a direct message to fans of Triumph and Age of Wonders, Wester finished by confirming that Paradox has as much faith in that team as its fans do.
“Let’s add our collective powers to make their next game great,” he said.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
