Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Guest Chatbots bring new income stream to ecommerce Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Growing revenue is a constant battle for ecommerce websites. This can involve fine-tuning processes by optimizing funnels, checkout pages, or calls to action. It also means being open to new technologies and opportunities.
Recent research on consumer attitudes shows the income-growing opportunity chatbots can represent for ecommerce store owners. Below, I’ll dive into the study and shed light on three major learning points we can take from it.
35% of consumers want more chatbots Before we examine the actual revenue and ROI element of chatbots, it is important to look at consumer adoption of the technology. After all, for a revenue stream to scale, you need adoption. Without it, we would be left with a neat growth hack — good enough for a quick spurt of income, maybe, but not good enough to scale.
The 2017 chatbot report suggests we are not looking at a fad but, instead, an actual trend. Out of the 2,000 consumers interviewed, 35 percent said they want more businesses to adopt chatbots.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! To put an even finer point on it, that means that although only 57 percent of respondents had already used a chatbot before, over half of those consumers are already asking for more.
Consumers are ready to spend over $600 via a chatbot It’s time to talk cash. The research shows consumers are ready to spend real money while interacting with a chatbot. On average, millennials (26 to 36 years old) would be willing to spend $618 via a chatbot.
So far, case studies around chatbots have mostly been about fun. You will find countless stories about entertaining bots that help you be a better cook, find the right pair of shoes, or simply deliver a joke every day.
This research shows chatbots can do much more than entertain. A finely tuned ecommerce chatbot can be a new revenue stream.
According to the study, “ One in five (21%) UK consumers would consider purchasing goods and services from a chatbot.” This is a goldmine for ecommerce businesses looking for new ways to attract, entertain, and monetize an audience. It’s no wonder giants like Walmart are using AI to enhance a shopping experience , and it’s just the beginning.
40% of consumers want deals and offers Many studies have announced email marketing’s death. One of the biggest reasons people cite for disliking marketing emails is the irrelevant and promotional content.
Surprisingly, this exact type of content would please almost half of the consumers if it came through a chatbot. When promotional content comes through a channel a consumer likes to use, they seem to find it less spammy, more personal, more bespoke.
It’s a goldmine for ecommerce. Where most marketers have struggled to maintain a 15 percent open rate on their beautifully designed emails, they can now leverage this new channel that does not require any of the fluff.
You can now target customers through a channel they love, a channel they want to use more, a channel they are ready to spend money through.
Conclusion: Ready for the chatbot revolution All these statistics come from an extensive study on consumer behavior regarding and expectations for chatbots. There are many more interesting data points herein I could have reported on.
While some might think chatbots are a fad, research proves otherwise. The first ecommerce stores to adapt will be the first to profit from this new channel.
Alex Debecker is the founder of Ubisend , a SaaS platform that allows users to integrate multiple mobile messaging applications and send messages to their subscribers across all of them from a single account.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
