Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Are you addressing threats to your business continuity? Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Presented by CoreSite The digital revolution has shaken up the IT capabilities of your company: The move to XaaS and mobile applications has boosted efficiency, cut costs, and created new opportunities.
But the risks that have shaken out of that transformation are increasingly damaging to your bottom line. Downtime becomes your biggest threat, caused by everything from cyber attacks to catastrophic power failures. The average revenue lost due to downtime has skyrocketed to $8,851 per minute.
 That’s a 38 percent increase since 2010.
Maintaining 100 percent uptime is possible, with comprehensive, powerful BC/DR (Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery) models. They can address dangers from the mundane to the emerging. But deciding which model aligns best with your business objectives takes some significant self-examination.
Find out where to start — including determining location, complicance requirements, budget and implementation.
Access this free white paper that reviews all you need to move forward with the right solution.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
