Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Snapdeal founders derail $950 million acquisition bid by Flipkart as talks end (update) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn An employee cleans a Snapdeal logo at its headquarters in Gurugram on the outskirts of New Delhi, Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
( Reuters ) — India’s Snapdeal said it had decided to remain independent and was ending all talks regarding a sale, bringing the curtain down on months of discussions around a possible acquisition of the e-commerce firm by bigger rival Flipkart.
The board of Jasper Infotech, which runs Snapdeal, had in-principle agreed to Flipkart’s revised buyout bid of up to $950 million and a deal was pending approval of smaller shareholders, Reuters reported last week. But obstacles remained with sources saying founders Kunal Bahl and Rohit Bansal were mulling an alternate path.
“The company has now decided to pursue an independent path and is terminating all strategic discussions as a result,” Snapdeal said in a statement on Monday.
The failure to forge a deal is a setback for Softbank Group, the largest investor in Snapdeal, as the Japanese firm has been trying to engineer an all-stock transaction for months, as a means to secure a sizeable stake in Flipkart, India’s No. 1 home-grown e-commerce player.
The Flipkart deal had a “number of onerous requirements” such as “indemnities and protections”, a source involved in the talks told Reuters ahead of Snapdeal’s decision on Monday.
Flipkart also insisted on getting approval from all Snapdeal shareholders for the deal to go through, two other sources said.
Founders Bahl and Bansal plan to run a stripped-down version of its online marketplace and this has the backing of the firm’s early investors Kalaari Capital and Nexus Venture Partners, a fourth source said.
Snapdeal will be able to financially sustain itself with the sale of certain non-core assets, the firm said in its statement.
The company has already announced one such sale – Indian lender Axis Bank said last week it would acquire the company’s digital payments unit FreeCharge for $60 million.
Standard Chartered’s private equity arm is in talks to acquire Snapdeal’s logistics arm Vulcan Express, a fifth source told Reuters.
Reuters has previously reported that the founders’ bid to keep Snapdeal independent is likely to result in layoffs at the company, which currently employs about 1,200 people.
SoftBank said it respects Snapdeal’s decision to pursue an independent strategy.
“We look forward to the results of the Snapdeal 2.0 strategy, and to remaining invested in the vibrant Indian e-commerce space,” SoftBank said in a brief statement.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
