Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Guest Silicon Valley vets head to Cleveland for Startup Scaleup Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Startup Scaleup, a networking event for entrepreneurs, returns to Gordon Square in Cleveland on August 15, 2017.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Now in its third year, Startup Scaleup is pulling in Silicon Valley executives who want to see Cleveland’s entrepreneurial spirit up close.
Former Yelp and Move.com executive Rob Krolik and Silicon Valley entrepreneur Alex Bard are among the speakers appearing at the event, which is organized by JumpStart. The day-long event, aimed at helping entrepreneurs start and grow businesses, is happening August 15 in the Gordon Square Arts District.
“One of the things we’re very excited about this year is that we’ll be hosting current and former Silicon Valley entrepreneurs, investors and executives who will be taking part in sessions throughout the day and networking with local entrepreneurs and investors,” said JumpStart CEO Ray Leach in an email. “Increasingly, other hubs of entrepreneurship are starting to take notice of what’s going on in Northeast Ohio and want to get involved.” This event will offer more than 35 workshops, panel discussions, and networking opportunities at 12 venues throughout Gordon Square. Attendance was about 1,300 in 2016, and more participants are expected this year, organizers said.
“Startup Scaleup is designed specifically with entrepreneurs in mind,” Leach said. “Whether they are just starting to think about launching their own venture, currently building a startup, or scaling an existing small business that has huge potential for growth, it’s all about helping them access resources they need to achieve their goals.” Krolik is the former CFO of Yelp and Move.com, while Bard is a partner at Redpoint Ventures and a serial entrepreneur who has sold companies to Salesforce and AOL.
Above: Alex Bard, Silicon Valley entrepreneur and partner at Redpoint Ventures. Courtesy Alex Bard “With increased access to information, talent and technology, it’s now possible to build great companies anywhere in the world — not just in the valley,” Bard said in a written statement. “That’s why I’m very excited to be a part of Startup Scaleup and to come see what’s going on in Cleveland first-hand.” Startup Scaleup’s programs are organized into two tracks: one for entrepreneurs who are building young ventures, the other for small-business owners who want their ventures to grow. Attendees can follow one track or mix and match sessions to fit their needs, organizers said.
Startup Scaleup tickets are $20 and include a $10 lunch voucher and two $5 snack vouchers redeemable at Gordon Square restaurants.
Here are some schedule highlights; go to the website for full information: The Art of the Exit Krolik, who helped take Yelp public in 2012, gives his insights on that process.
The Business of Getting Big This session is about how multimillion-dollar Northeast Ohio businesses like Hyland Software and hand sanitizer company GOJO grew.
Mastering the Side Hustle WOIO Channel 19 anchor and successful food entrepreneur Tiffani Tucker, along with other small-business owners, discuss launching a side business while working full time.
Startup Stories Life After Exit: Explorys cofounder Steve McHale and Silicon Valley entrepreneur/investor Alex Bard share insights about what happens when a company is acquired or sold. McHale’s company was acquired by IBM, and Bard has sold companies to Salesforce and AOL.
Silicon Valley Money, Midwest Zip Code John Locke from Silicon Valley venture capital firm Accel, along with representatives of two Ohio startups, talks about about how startups can attract coastal capital while remaining headquartered in the Midwest.
This post originally appeared on Cleveland.com.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
