Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AdColony: Scheduled events beat user-generated content in mobile-app engagement Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The most popular ways to keep users engaged: achievements, push notifications, and value-exchange ads.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Scheduled and dynamic events beat user-generated content when it comes to keeping users engaged, according to mobile-ad firm AdColony ‘s Summer 2017 Mobile Publishing Survey.
AdColony recently surveyed publishers who have an average of 3 million monthly active users.
Above: Playable and video ads are becoming more popular.
The survey said 86 percent of publishers believe rewarded video ads provide a positive user experience. Eighty percent of publishers use video and display ads in their apps. Ads account for 55 percent of publisher revenue. For non-gaming apps, ads are 76 percent of revenue.
Publishers said they are most excited about playable ads (where people can tap on an ad and begin playing a game) and immersive ads, but only 48 percent of them are using playables now. And playable ads are viewed as a positive experience by only 25 percent now. This suggests that even though some uncertainty exists regarding the impact of playables on the user experience, the new format has promise.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Outside of ads, in-app purchases are the most effective monetization.
Pre-roll video has the worst impact on the user experience while rewarded video has the best impact. In-app purchases have the best impact on the user experience, while subscriptions have the worst. User retention, in-app behavior, and session duration are the best indicators of user quality.
While top mobile publishers have more than 50 employees, only one to three of those employees are dedicated to monetization. Of monetization methods, publishers rank rewarded video ads as No. 1. Rewarded video, in-app purchases, and interstitial video are considered highly effective.
Above: AdColony says ads are the dominant form of monetization for all apps.
About 71 percent of publishers use three or more engagement methods to retain users. Achievements, push notifications, and value exchange ads are the most popular means of engaging users. Seventy percent of publishers say that push notifications are effective. Rewarding users through VIP tiers is effective for 65 percent of publishers in driving engagement.
Respondents primarily represented mobile game developers (90 percent), with a minority making non-gaming apps (18 percent). A small number (8 percent) represented mobile publishers who make both gaming and non-gaming apps. The survey had global distribution.
Above: Rewarded video is still very popular.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
