Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Why Hearthstone boss Ben Brode makes videos from his house Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Hearthstone game director Ben Brode likes to record from his home so that he doesn't inconvenience people. Or so he can rap.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Ben Brode is a jolly bloke. Anyone who’s seen the Hearthstone game director talk during videos or other presentations have caught his hearty laugh and seen his trademark plaid shirts. But he’s also known for something else: filing videos about Blizzard’s card game from his home, not the company’s studio at its Irvine headquarters.
I had a chat with Brode a couple of weeks ago, and the first thing I asked him was why he filmed so many updates and other Hearthstone videos from his home. I can’t take full credit for this question — I got to thinking about it after the gang on “ The Angry Chicken ” podcast (which covers the card game) discussed the very question. It looks like Brode recorded one of his most recent videos next to his stairwell.
“Yeah, sort of. It’s just a little side desk that’s downstairs,” Brode said over Skype. “It looks like a stairwell, yeah.” He also raps from here, too.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Turns out Brode likes doing these videos from home because he’s busy at the office, wants to get it right, and is just a nice guy.
“I’m in meetings all day at work, and I don’t have a lot of time to do other stuff. I like taking my time. I like thinking about how I’m going to do things. I do a couple of takes. I don’t like inconveniencing crew people who are handling cameras,” he said. “It fits my style to take my time and do it after I put the kids to bed. I realize it’s not the most corporate feeling, but it’s a bit more personal that way to me, too. I bought myself a fancy microphone and a reasonable camera, and I do it at home.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
