Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple stock hits record high following iPhone 8 event announcement Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Apple’s stock posted the highest closing price in its 36-year history Thursday following its announcement that it will unveil the iPhone 8 on September 12.
Apple closed at $164.00 a share, up 0.7 percent on the day after rising as high as $164.52, which also marks a record intraday high point for the stock.
The iPhone 8 event has been widely expected to take place in September, the month when the company traditionally holds a product event to unveil iPhones and other products. While the September 12 date had been rumored for a couple of weeks, the official announcement seems to have ratcheted up expectations for the product’s unveiling. The event may also include updates on Apple TV, Watch, and the HomePod, but most investors regard the iPhone 8 as the main attraction.
Apple’s stock has risen 42 percent so far in 2017, beating the Nasdaq Composite’s 19 percent gain, amid investor anticipation that Apple would deliver a strong upgrade of its iPhone, a product that accounts for nearly two-thirds of its operating profit. This year also marks the 10-year anniversary of the iPhone’s introduction.
Apple’s revenue declined 7.7 percent in 2016, partly because the company didn’t release a major upgrade to the iPhone last fall. Leaked details and rumors indicate the iPhone 8 will include an edge-to-edge, 5.8 inch OLED display screen; facial recognition technology; wireless charging; and capability for AR apps.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
