Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Netflix employees created a vending machine concept for developing markets Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn In the upper left is the prototype of the Netflix Kiosk built at the company's Hack Day.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
During a recent Hack Day at Netflix , one group of employees designed something that sounds totally counterintuitive, but actually could be genius.
The Netflix Kiosk was built to address the challenge of users in developing markets where credit cards and high-speed bandwidth can be in limited supply. The machine would allow prospective users to sample Netflix content, create an account, and pay using cash.
Most impressively, the group actually built a working prototype, supposedly within the confines of the 24-hour challenge. We tip our hats to you.
The company notes that most of the ideas generated at the hackathon are unlikely to ever become real products. Certainly, the system that lets people access Netflix using an ancient telegraph machine or a tool that makes Netflix’s user interface creepier by adding eye movement to static images are not great bets.
But we’re intrigued by the vending machine. Why not Netflix machines for cafés? Or other public spaces? Check it out: VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
