Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Y Combinator startup Dharma promises to bring more users into blockchain apps Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
If you’ve dabbled a bit in the blockchain world already — bought a few dollars’ worth of cyrptocurrency or even run a node on your PC — you’ve been through that rather complex process of having to transfer fiat money into a crypto wallet, then wait for your currency to convert. It can take days, and it’s not a super intuitive process.
If we’re going to see mass adoption of blockchain applications and cryptocurrencies, this onboarding process will need to be much simpler and much quicker. Users who show up to try out a blockchain-based decentralized app — or “dApp” — aren’t going to want to go through a days-long hassle of acquiring currency.
A Y Combinator startup called Dharma thinks it can solve that problem. The company, which launched in beta two months ago, lets dApp makers give blockchain newcomers a small, quick cryptocurrency loan to help them get started.
“With a few lines of code, blockchain developers can easily integrate a DharmaCredit button into their application [to give users a quick loan in the necessary token currency] rather than forcing customers to buy cryptocurrency in order to even get their foot in the door,” the company said in a statement. The loan takes “under 5 minutes.” We should see other, similar solutions emerge over the next few months to tackle this onboarding issue. It will be an interesting space to watch.
Dharma is launching publicly today.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
