Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sonic Forces is out for Switch, PS4, Xbox One and PC on November 7 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Classic Sega characters and a Persona star make for a nice bonus.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Sega announced today that Sonic Forces is coming out for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC on November 7. Sega also revealed a special physical version of the game that will cost $40 and come with a controller skin and in-game character costumes based on some of Sega and Atlus ‘s most famous stars (including the hero from Persona 5 ).
Sonic has already had one major release this year, but Sonic Mania wasn’t actually made by the studio — Sonic Team — that usually works on the franchise. While Mania took inspiration from the Blue Blur’s earlier days, Forces is more similar to recent games like Sonic Generations.
Forces could help continue Sonic’s great year … or it could leave us running back to Mania. Either way, Sega is surely looking at the numbers for both games as it plans Sonic’s future.
As with Generations, Forces will switch between levels for a Modern Sonic and a Classic Sonic. The Modern Sonic stages will be faster and feature 3D sections, while the Classic Sonic levels focus more on traditional 2D platforming. Forces also adds a new series of stages for a character that players create. This is the first time an official Sonic game has let fans make their heroes.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
