Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Magazine View previous issues MIT News Magazine The Hard Problems issue The intractable problem of plastics. Fixing the internet. Exploring what it would it take for AI to become conscious. Plus: there are so many urgent issues facing the world—where do we begin? Bill Gates, Lina Khan, Jennifer Doudna, and others offer their ideas.
Letter from the editor View previous issue View next issue Michael Byers Features Categorized in Climate change and energy Think that your plastic is being recycled? Think again.
Plastic is cheap to make and shockingly profitable. It’s everywhere. And we’re all paying the price.
Categorized in Artificial intelligence Minds of machines: The great AI consciousness conundrum Philosophers, cognitive scientists, and engineers are grappling with what it would take for AI to become conscious.
Categorized in Policy Government technology is famously bad. It doesn’t have to be.
New York City is fixing the relationship between government and technology–and not in the ways you’d expect.
Categorized in Space Inside NASA’s bid to make spacecraft as small as possible When it comes to exploring the solar system, we must grapple with the hard limits of physics.
Also in this issue This mathematician is making sense of nature’s complexity Hungarian scholar Gábor Domokos aims to understand the physical world by describing its forms in the simplest possible geometry.
Categorized in Profile How to fix the internet If we want online discourse to improve, we need to move beyond the big platforms.
Categorized in Culture How this Turing Award–winning researcher became a legendary academic advisor Theoretical computer scientist Manuel Blum has guided generations of graduate students into fruitful careers in the field.
Categorized in Computing Inside the quest for unbreakable encryption Cryptographers want encryption schemes that are impossible for tomorrow’s quantum computers to crack. There’s only one catch: they might not exist.
Categorized in Computing The nonprofit that lets girls build the world they want to see Girls Garage blends arts, power tools, and STEM.
Categorized in Field notes Death to captchas Proving you’re human on websites is harder than ever—but alternative tests are gaining ground.
Categorized in Computing The quest to re-create nature’s strongest material Material inspired by limpet teeth could perform as well as the toughest manmade materials, or better.
Categorized in Biotechnology and health The grassroots push to digitize India’s most precious documents The Servants of Knowledge collection on the Internet Archive is an effort to make up for the lack of library resources in India.
Categorized in Computing Job titles of the future: carbon accountant More companies are hiring specialists to help them understand their contributions to climate change.
Categorized in Climate change and energy Past issues Updated The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
