Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google updates Container Engine to help companies run modern apps Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Google Container Engine (GKE) , the tech giant’s managed service that’s designed to help businesses run applications that rely on software containers, has been updated today with a number of features that should help companies scale and manage their software.
Companies using GKE will be able to take advantage of new features like aliased IP support, which gives a container a virtual IP address that can be referenced from other applications in the same way a developer would work with a traditional virtual machine. Customers can also sign up for an alpha test of using Nvidia’s new Tesla P100 GPUs inside a containerized application on Google’s cloud.
Google will also be launching a new multi-cluster ingress feature in alpha soon, which will allow companies to spin up multiple Kubernetes clusters in different cloud regions and have the service intelligently route traffic to the one that will provide the best performance for an end user.
GKE as a service is designed to help companies do away with some of the complexity of running multi-container applications with Kubernetes, a piece of open source software that originated at Google.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! These feature updates are important as Google faces tough competition in the cloud space from the likes of Microsoft and Amazon, who have their own managed container services. Google has a bit of a leg up in this case, since it’s the progenitor of Kubernetes.
The latest version of Container Engine also includes the changes that were made to Kubernetes with its 1.8 release, which was unveiled last night.
 Some of the updates in that release include support for role-based access control and a shift to a new Custom Resource Definition object for creating API resources inside Kubernetes.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
