Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages The Commodore 64 is the next gaming classic to get a retro makeover Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Commodore 64 Mini.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The Commodore 64 is making a comeback. Koch Media, the German media company that also owns the Deep Silver publishing brand, announced that it is making a tiny version of the classic computer gaming machine. The Commodore 64 Mini is coming out sometime early in 2018 and will retail for $80 This is taking a page out of Nintendo’s playbook. Last year, the NES Classic Edition was a huge hit that was nearly impossible to find on store shelves. The SNES Classic Edition launches today. Preorders for it sold out almost immediately. The original Commodore 64 came out in 1982. It was one of the first major home computers. It was a pioneer in the early days of the PC gaming market (back before anyone really called it that).
The Commodore 64 Mini is 50 percent smaller than the original. It will come with 64 classic games built into the system, including California Games, Speedball 2: Brutal Deluxe, Paradroid, and Impossible Mission. You can see a partial list here.
 It also comes with a joystick and an HDMI cable. Using HDMI, the Commodore 64 Mini can connect to any modern TV.
The Commodore 64 Mini has two USB ports, so you can plug your own keyboard or a second joystick for two-player gaming.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
