Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Elon Musk wants to take us anywhere on Earth in less than 1 hour Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Tesla chief executive Elon Musk enters the lobby of Trump Tower in Manhattan, New York, U.S., January 6, 2017.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Not content to overturn almost every notion we have about transportation, Elon Musk today unveiled an even more insanely transformative vision with the goal of allowing humans to reach any place on Earth in under 60 minutes.
Musk offered details of this future while speaking at the 68th International Astronautical Congress in Adelaide, Australia, according to Bloomberg.
 He then shared pieces of this vision on this Instagram account.
Musk has already launched Space X and electric car startup Tesla, seeded the Hyperloop transportation concept, and created the Boring Company to advance more efficient ways of drilling huge tunnels.
Now Musk is proposing a new earthbound travel system that would be developed by Space X, or Space Exploration Technologies. The company is developing a new and bigger rocket, dubbed BFR (presumably “Big Fucking Rocket.” Musk did not specify, just giggled a bit when he mentioned the acronym on stage). In a demo video, people took a ferry from New York to the BFR, which then shot into a low orbit to reach Shanghai.
Musk said the company plans to use growing revenue from launching satellites to fund the development of BFR. He also said it would eventually replace Space X’s current lineup of rockets so the company could concentrate all its resources on its development.
Musk believes that would also help fund Space X’s plans to develop a service to take people to the Moon, as well as helping him establish a colony on Mars. This is all part of Musk’s larger vision for how to turn humans into a multi-planet species.
Here are the posts from Musk’s Instagram account: https://www.instagram.com/p/BZnZsxVAA6E/?taken-by=elonmusk https://www.instagram.com/p/BZnVfWxgdLe/?taken-by=elonmusk https://www.instagram.com/p/BZm_FXPg6YZ/?taken-by=elonmusk And here is the talk that was streamed by Bloomberg on Facebook.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
