Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google adds Mumbai cloud region Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google signage Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Google’s public cloud platform continued its expansion today with the company’s launch of its new Mumbai region.
That set of datacenters, known as Asia-south1, will provide improved performance for people in India accessing applications that Google Cloud customers have running in the region. According to Google, end users in Chennai, Hyderabad, Bangalore, and Mumbai will see application latencies 20-90 percent lower than when serving the same information from Singapore, the company’s next nearest cloud region.
Above: An animation shows the location of Google’s latest cloud region in Mumbai, India.
India’s burgeoning technology sector and massive population makes the country a natural home for a public cloud region. New companies without existing datacenter investments are more likely to start building their businesses directly on public cloud infrastructure, so it makes sense for Google to try to capture that market inside India.
Google announced the region last year, when it revealed a planned massive expansion of its cloud hardware footprint. This is part of the company’s move to diversify the physical locations customers can use to host their applications and data, as Google Cloud competes with Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, and other providers.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Both Amazon and Microsoft already have cloud regions in India, so this is an important way for Google to catch up to its competition.
Above: A chart shows the Google Cloud services available through the company’s Mumbai region as of its launch on October 31, 2017.
At launch, the region will support a limited subset of Google Cloud services, including App Engine, Container Engine, and Compute Engine. Notably absent from the initial list are Google’s machine learning APIs, as well as the company’s Cloud Machine Learning service for creating custom intelligent models.
Of course, customers can use those other services in a region where they’re available and then transfer data over Google’s network to the Mumbai datacenter.
In addition to the physical infrastructure change, Google also tweaked its Cloud billing system so that Indian customers can pay for services with rupees, rather than being billed in a foreign currency.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
