Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google expands service for directly connecting private datacenters to its cloud Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn At the Google Cloud Next conference in San Francisco on March 9, 2017.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Google announced a few enhancements to its cloud networking capabilities today that are designed to provide customers with more options for connecting their private datacenters with those run by the tech titan.
First off, the company’s Dedicated Interconnect service, which allows customers to establish private connections between their datacenters and Google’s network, has entered general availability. Google introduced the service last month, and it’s now available from more locations around the globe. At this point, Google guarantees 99.99 percent uptime for its customers using the service, which can be accessed from a number of points in North America, Europe, Asia, and Australia.
Second, the company also announced Cloud Router Global Routing, a new feature that’s designed to make any subnet in Google Cloud available worldwide through Dedicated Interconnect. That means it’s possible for a customer in the U.S. to connect their private datacenter to Google’s network in New York and access all of their cloud applications, even those running in datacenters on other continents.
This is part of Google’s push to serve large enterprise customers with its cloud offerings. While some businesses have opted to move their entire application footprint to the public cloud, most are working with a hybrid deployment model, keeping some applications in private datacenters while running others on the public cloud.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Dedicated Interconnect is supposed to provide customers with a secure, lower-latency means of connecting their computing assets to the network, and it could help lure new customers to Google’s cloud platform. It’s important for the company to offer services these in order to compete with Amazon, Microsoft, and other players in the space.
It’s worth noting that Google doesn’t currently have Dedicated Interconnect peering locations anywhere in Central America, South America, or Africa. The company announced today that it is working with Equinix to provide additional locations for the service in the future, in addition to building out its global network.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
