Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Shippo raises $20 million to be the Stripe for shipping Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Third-party integrations with Shippo.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Shippo , a startup that helps ecommerce companies implement shipping of their products, announced today that it has closed a series B funding round worth $20 million.
Bessemer Venture Partners led the round, which included participation from Union Square Ventures, SoftTech VC, Version One Ventures, and 500 Startups. The news comes a little over a year after Shippo raised a $7 million series A , led by Union Square Ventures.
Jeremy Levine, a Bessemer partner who was also involved with the firm’s investment in ecommerce platform Shopify, spearheaded the deal and will join Shippo’s board of directors as part of the investment.
Shippo’s product is an automated system that companies can implement in order to provide users with a wide variety of shipping options from ecommerce sites. The company is able to set its customers up with easy access to several different shipping providers, rather than requiring firms to implement various systems.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The cash will be used to fuel the expansion of Shippo’s product to reach businesses of all sizes. The startup counts eBay as one of its major customers and is now powering fulfillment for all of the online auction site’s orders in the U.S. and Canada, cofounder and CEO Laura Behrens Wu told VentureBeat in an interview.
Wu said Shippo wasn’t planning on raising funds but was approached by Bessemer for this round. She added that the team is looking forward to working with Levine, given his Shopify expertise.
Shippo is part of a cohort of companies working to provide retail businesses with easy access to essential building blocks so they don’t need to manage complicated process themselves. Others include Square, Stripe, and Shopify, which cover different parts of retail infrastructure.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
