Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Intel to show off 5G network at 2018 Winter Olympics Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Intel is showing 5G tech at the South Korea Winter Olympics in February 2018.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Intel plans to showcase 5G wireless networking technologies at the 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang, South Korea, in February. The network will demonstrate wireless data transfer speeds of gigabits per second, based on the pending 5G wireless standard.
That means fans attending the Winter Olympics will be able to post all the selfies and videos they want. 5G promises to disrupt wired internet connections, such as cable TV and modem service, or wired phone line services. My hope for 5G: I’ll be happy if our family can play games and watch Netflix on a wireless network without it bankrupting us or slowing our data network to a crawl.
“As mobility evolves beyond the smartphone, 5G is becoming one of the most impactful technology transformations we are likely to see in our lifetimes,” said Sandra Rivera, senior vice president and general manager of the network platforms Group at Intel, in a blog post.
 “It will bring seamless connectivity, massive computing capabilities and rapid access to the cloud together for the first time.” Intel is one of the sponsors of the Winter Olympics, and the company is working with South Korea’s KT to deliver a broad-scale 5G network for the duration of the games. That will require advances in networking, client technology, and the cloud. Beyond bringing wireless broadband at gigabit-plus speeds, 5G also promises ultra-low latency, meaning there are very short delays in interactions for things like games and livestreamed content.
Intel and KT will deliver a 5G showcase in Gangneung Olympic Park, in Gwanghwamun, Seoul and at other Olympic venues across Korea. Intel is competing with rivals such as Qualcomm to create chips for 5G services.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
