Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages DICE changes how Star Wars: Battlefront II’s loot boxes work Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The view from above in Theed map for Battlefront II multiplayer.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Electronic Arts and DICE are making some changes to how loot boxes and progression work in Star Wars: Battlefront II.
 This comes after a beta test for Battlefront II caused some backlash from fans. Critics voiced concerns that players could spend money to get advantages in online multiplayer, and that led to a lot of angry reactions on message boards and YouTube.
Based on the beta, some players worried that a person with unlimited funds could purchase crates until they unlocked all of the most powerful Star Cards, which are perks that improve your character’s abilities. That setup could lead to a pay-to-win scenario, which is something that gaming fans have had little tolerance for in the past.
But EA says it has heard that response.
“The beta gave us a welcome chance to test all of our systems in action and tune things up for better balance,” reads an EA blog post.
 “A few weeks back, we mentioned we were going to take another look at how the progression system works. After incorporating feedback from the beta, we’re happy to share our plans for launch.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Here is how EA describes the changes (emphasis is the publisher’s): Epic Star Cards, the highest tier of Star Cards available at launch, have been removed from Crates.
To help keep everyone on a level playing field, these Star Cards will primarily be available through crafting, with the exception of special Epic Star Cards available through pre-order, deluxe, and starter packs.
You’ll need to reach a certain rank to craft upgraded Star Cards.
You won’t be able to buy a bunch of Crates, grind everything up into crafting materials, and immediately use them to get super powerful Star Cards. You can only upgrade the ability to craft higher-tier Star Cards by ranking up through playing the game.
Weapons are locked behind specific milestones.
While a select few will be found in Crates, the rest can only be attained by play. Want to unlock a new weapon for your Heavy? Play as a Heavy and you’ll gain access to the class’s new weapons.
Class-specific gear and items can be unlocked by playing as them.
As you progress through your favorite class, you’ll hit milestones granting you class-specific Crates. These will include a mix of Star Cards and Crafting Parts to benefit your class’s development.
I am going to get my hands on Star Wars: Battlefront II soon, and I’ll see if these changes help the final product.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
