Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds is ‘on track’ to leave Early Access in late December Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn This will end well.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The battle royal military shooter PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds isn’t finished yet, but developer Bluehole Studio says it is on pace to complete it by “late December.” This would take the last-player-standing multiplayer hit to its full 1.0 release state — although Early Access hasn’t prevented it from reaching the most-streamed game on Twitch last quarter.
Bluehole still hasn’t specified what a 1.0 release will entail, but the company has promised features like vaulting over obstacles and improvements to stability and performance for a long time now. Since March, the studio has sold PUBG through the Steam Early Access portal for games in development. Despite its development status, however, PUBG has attracted a huge audience of more than 13 million players around the world.
If the PC version goes live at the end of December, this will fulfill one of promises of Brendan “PlayerUnknown” Greene, who is the creator and creative director of PUBG. In July, Greene said that he doesn’t like games that stay in Early Access for multiple years, so he said that it was “a matter of honor” to launch the 1.0 version before the end of 2017.
The retail PC release will also hit weeks after PUBG launches December 12 on Xbox One.
 The shooter is finally hitting Microsoft’s console as part of that platform’s Early Access-like Game Preview program. The Xbox One version is a different fork with its own roadmap, according to Bluehole, so it won’t hit 1.0 at the same time as the PC fork.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Getting the game out of Early Access and onto console are two huge accomplishments for Bluehole, but ongoing problems with cheaters and hackers could spoil any celebration for Bluehole.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
