Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Chrome for Windows will start blocking third-party software injections in 2018 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Next year is going to be big for Chrome, if you believe everything Google has announced so far: going to war against low-quality ads , autoplaying content with sound , and unwanted redirects.
 The company today added a smaller, but still significant, initiative to its to-do list: reducing Chrome crashes caused by third-party software on Windows.
Google notes that roughly two-thirds of Windows Chrome users “have other applications on their machines that interact with Chrome, such as accessibility or antivirus software.” Before Chrome got extensions, third-party software needed to inject code in Chrome to function properly. Because Chrome users with software that injects code are 15 percent more likely to experience crashes, Google is now planning to block third-party code injection on Windows starting next year.
Blocking code injection will take place in three phases — here is Google’s timeline for this Chrome for Windows project: VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! April 2018: Chrome 66 will begin showing affected users a warning after a crash, alerting them that other software is injecting code into Chrome and guiding them to update or remove that software (pictured above).
July 2018: Chrome 68 will begin blocking third-party software from injecting code into Chrome processes on Windows. If this blocking prevents Chrome from starting, the browser will restart and allow the injection, but also show a warning that guides the user to remove the software.
January 2019: Chrome 72 will remove this accommodation and block code injections full stop.
There are, however, some exceptions for the last point — not all third-party solutions will be blocked. Google promises that Microsoft-signed code, accessibility software, and IME software will not be affected.
If you develop Windows software that works with Chrome, Google is encouraging you to switch Chrome channels and test your code. The company specifically mentioned the Beta channel , but it’s likely these changes will first show up in the Dev or Canary channels even sooner.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
