Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Sommetrics Adds Prominent Healthcare Leaders to Board of Directors and Advisory Board Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn SAN DIEGO–(BUSINESS WIRE)–November 30, 2017– Sommetrics , a company providing products and services to improve sleep quality, today announced the addition of Raymond Huggenberger to its board of directors and Randall Whitfield to its advisory board. Earlier this month, the company announced its partnership with AvantSleep in Canada to distribute aerSleep TM , Sommetrics’ sleep apnea therapy system. Sommetrics also recently engaged Key West Investments to help raise additional capital to support the development and commercialization of products and services to treat disorders of the upper airway, such as obstructive sleep apnea and snoring.
“Ray and Randy are icons in our field of respiratory care,” said Richard Rose, M.D., Sommetrics’ CEO and board chair. “They bring decades of global experience in successfully launching products embodying new technologies like our aerFree TM and aerSleep TM devices. They also have important insights into marketing strategies that are disruptive and can lead to rapid product uptake in the marketplace. We are very pleased they have decided to join Sommetrics.” With more than 20 years of operational experience in the healthcare industry, Huggenberger is the former CEO of Inogen (NASDAQ: INGN), a medical technology company that develops, manufactures and markets oxygen concentrators. Prior to joining Inogen, he held executive leadership roles with leading companies including Sunrise Medical and the healthcare division of TA Triumph Adler. At Sunrise Medical, Huggenberger held several positions spanning more than a decade, including president and chief operating officer from 2002 to 2004.
“With its disruptive technology and passionate team, Sommetrics is poised to dramatically and positively change the way sleep apnea and sedation-related apnea are treated,” said Huggenberger. “I’m looking forward to being a part of this journey and contributing to the company’s commercialization.” Whitfield joins Sommetrics’ advisory board with nearly four decades of business experience and more than 15 years in the respiratory industry. He led various business groups at Philips Healthcare including hospital respiratory care, emergency care and resuscitation, anesthesia care, and therapeutic temperature management. Whitfield was also the president of the critical care business unit at Respironics, as well as the president of Puritan Bennett.
“This is an exceptionally exciting time in Sommetrics’ growth. The healthcare industry is in need of a substantial shift in sleep apnea therapy, and I believe Sommetrics’ technology will precisely address this need,” said Whitfield. “I’m pleased to join Sommetrics’ world renowned group of experts.” Earlier this year, Sommetrics’ aerSleep TM received Health Canada approval – allowing it to be marketed in Canada. The company also recently announced a distribution agreement with Smiths Medical for aerFree TM , Sommetrics’ acute care device that aids in keeping a patient’s upper airway open during mild to moderate sedation.
About Sommetrics Sommetrics is a privately funded company located in San Diego. It is primarily focused on improving sleep quality by providing products and services that deal with disorders of the upper airway such as obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and snoring.
 In addition, the company has developed products that address sedation-related compromise of the upper airway during medical procedures. For more information, visit www.sommetrics.com and follow the company on Twitter , Facebook and LinkedIn.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
