Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google launches Poly API for AR/VR assets in Unity and Unreal Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google launched Poly in early November as a way for developers to find 3D assets for their virtual reality and augmented reality projects. Today, it’s releasing the Poly API to streamline the process of including those assets.
Poly has a library of creative commons 3D objects and scenes, and folks can also upload assets they’ve made using Google’s VR creation tools Blocks and Tilt Brush.
 You could also feasibly upload models you’ve created with a tool outside the Google ecosystem, such as Oculus’s Medium , since the Poly library accepts standard object and material file types.
Once a developer has found an asset they’d like to use, the new Poly Toolkit enables them to quickly import it into Unity and Unreal Engine projects. Google has created sample projects for ARCore and ARKit as examples to get developers started.
Users can search through the Poly library using filters such as keywords and date updated, as well as by model complexity. It’s not the only resource for VR and AR assets. For instance, the Unity Asset Store has a number of 3D models as well as scripts for things like camera movement.
 Some marketplaces, such as CGTrader , also sell 3D models. However, everything in the Poly library is free.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
