Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages The Infectious Madness of Doctor Dekker’s FMV mystery will creep to Switch, PS4, and Xbox One Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Infectious Madness of Doctor Dekker.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Full-motion video (FMV) once seemed like the peak of gaming technology in the early CD-rom days on systems like Sega CD. What could be more realistic than actual video of real actors? Sadly, compression and poor acting made most of these games more campy than good. But the genre isn’t completely dead.
The Infectious Madness of Doctor Dekker is a new FMV game that is coming out this spring. You play as a psychiatrist trying to solve a Lovecraftian murder. The game randomly generates the guilty person, so you can play it more than once. It launched in May for PC, but coming to consoles can open it up to larger audience.
Doctor Dekker could find eager players on the Switch.
 Nintendo’s new portable/home console hybrid has become a hot destination for digital and indie games. Developers have noted that their games, like Thimbleweed Park and Wonder Boy: The Dragon’s Trap , have sold best on Switch.
The PC version was all text-based, but the console releases will suggest questions that you can ask. Systems that support keyboards, like the PS4, can still use the text-based system.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
