Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft Edge for Android and iOS launches out of preview Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
We knew it was coming, but Microsoft has finally launched its Edge browser for Android and iOS devices.
The company introduced preview versions of the app last month, but now the app is available for everyone in certain markets. The iOS incarnation is available in the App Store today in the U.S., U.K., France, and China, while the Android incarnation is launching in those markets in addition to Australia, Canada, and India.
“We look forward to bringing MS Edge for iOS and Android to additional markets and languages over time,” noted Windows and Devices corporate VP Joe Belfiore, in a blog post.
Above: MS Edge The Edge browser is basically Microsoft’s replacement for its previous Internet Explorer browser, and it represents the company’s attempt at reinventing its browser for the modern age with a focus on “lightweight” and cross-platform functionality, including password support. The browser is available for Windows 10, Windows 10 Mobile, Xbox One, and now Android and iOS too.
“We have a long list of new features to build and improvements to make,” added Belfiore.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
