Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages China sending its ‘Jade Rabbit’ rover to the moon this weekend Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
China is set to become the third Earth nation to successfully land an object on the surface of the Moon later this weekend.
The country’s space program is planning to launch its new “Jade Rabbit&#822#8221; (aka Yutu) rover on Sunday via its its Chang’e-3 lunar probe. If successful, this will be the first mission to the Moon’s surface since the Russians did it 37 years ago.
The six-wheeled rover will explore the moon’s Sea of Rainbows, when it lands on the surface — two weeks after its launch in mid December. Afterwards the rover will continue exploring the moon’s surface for resources. The Chinese agency also plans to set up an astronomical telescope and test connectivity between the earth and the moon, according to Chinese news site China.org.cn.
Meanwhile, Europe’s ESA said it plans to help track China’s probe and its Rabbit rover from the time it launches until the rover reaches the Moon’s surface. It will do this by using two antennas to find the the rover’s location with “extreme accuracy.” Via The Verge VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
