Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Feature 23 games for your new iPhone Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Command & Conquer: Rivals.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
If you got a new iPhone over the holidays, one of the best ways to enjoy it and show it off is to play games. I’ve been checking out new iPhone devices — the iPhone XS Max and the iPhone XR — during the past couple of months, and thought I would share a list of games to play on them.
These games are one reason why mobile gaming has become a $63.2 billion industry worldwide, according to market researcher Newzoo.
 This week is when people get their new devices and are most likely to load new apps and games onto them. Or they may use their gift cards to purchase paid games. It’s the last major push of the year for the part of the gaming industry that plays games on mobile devices.
Here’s a list of my suggestions for mobile games to try out. Many of these games are also available on Android, but I haven’t tried them on that platform.
1. Command & Conquer: Rivals Above: Command & Conquer: Rivals Publisher: Electronic Arts Mobile Price: Free to play Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! I’ve been playing this game a lot during the holidays. I like the explosions, the competition with a real person, and the wide variety of strategies and tactics you can use to beat your enemy to a nuclear launch.
2. Slither.io Publisher: Lowtech Studios Price: Free to play My kid turned me on to this addictive title, where you start as a little worm and eat your way into something huge. You play against other humans, and if you run into their worm bodies, you explode and lose. Your finger will never leave the screen.
3. Florence Publisher: Annapurna Interactive Price: $3 It’s a love story with some very creative graphics.
4. Pokémon Go Above: Pokémon Go trainer battles can now take place at level 10 and up.
Publisher: Niantic Price: Free to play Everyone has played this. But it has become a lot more engaging with the addition of friends, Trainer Battles, weather effects, and new creatures. And it’s still the best way to get some exercise while playing a game.
5. Star Trek Fleet Command Publisher: Scopely Price: Free to play There’s a lot of depth in the creation of your starships, training your crew, and fighting rivals in real-time multiplayer arenas.
6. Ingress Prime Above: Ingress Prime features The Enlightened (green team) and The Resistance (blue).
Publisher: Niantic Price: Free to play The developers of the original Ingress from 2012 rebooted their location-based mobile game with a lot of improvements, including augmented reality, better graphics, and well-developed plotlines that pit one group of players, who want to preserve humanity, against those who want to enhance humanity with AI and other technologies.
7. Reigns: Game of Thrones Publisher: Devolver Digital Price: $2 You can sit on the Iron Throne and make decisions — swiping left or right — that will help your faction navigate the politics of Westeros.
8. HQ Trivia Publisher: HQ/Intermedia Labs Price: Free to play The game may be a bit beyond its peak, but it’s still entertaining to try to compete against others and win cash. If you answer 12 questions correctly, you get to split the cash prize with the winners.
9. PUBG Mobile Above: The Royale Pass in PUBG Mobile.
Publisher: Bluehole/Tencent Mobile International Price: Free to play The battle royale game where 100 players parachute onto an island, and only one can survive.
10. I Love Hue Publisher: Zut Games Price: Free to play You try to match colors and get the perfect gradient in this game.
11. Merge! Dragons Publisher: Gram Games Price: Free to play You can merge your dragon eggs, trees, treasures, and other items to create brand-new things.
12. Mindmate Publisher: Mindmate Price: Free An app that promotes a healthy brain through memory tests, workouts, and food.
13. Game of Thrones: Conquest Above: Dragons start as eggs and you can raise them to adults in Game of Thrones: Conquest.
Publisher: Warner Bros Price: Free to play If you combined Game of War: Fire Age with Game of Thrones, you would get something like this. You can join alliances and figure out how to take over the Seven Kingdoms.
Dragons have finally arrived in the game.
14. Drivetime Above: Drivetime offers voice-based social trivia games.
Publisher: Drivetime Price: Free You can play games while you drive. And it’s safe because you can control the trivia game with your voice. The game pits you against another human player in a multiplayer match.
15. Fortnite Publisher: Epic Games Price: Free to play This is a beautifully animated battle royale game that just about every human on Earth has heard about. You fight in a shootout with 100 players, and only one person or one squad survives.
16. Brawl Stars Publisher: Supercell Price: Free to play You can battle with friends or solo in brawl matches that last less than three minutes.
17. Empires & Puzzles: RPG Quest Publisher: Small Giant Games Price: Free to play This match-3 role-playing game is the first game from Small Giant Games, and it’s a big hit. You can solve puzzles, collect hero cards, fight player-vs.-player battles, and explore worlds.
18. Choices: Stories You Play Publisher: Pixelberry Studios Free to play From the folks who brought us High School Stories, you have to make big life choices in this game, like whether to choose love, romance, fantasy, or magic.
19. CSR 2 Publisher: Zynga/Natural Motion Price: Free to play The graphics look cool in this street drag racing game. You can also create a 3D augmented reality image that shows your coolest car, parked in your driveway.
20. Dawn of Titans Publisher: Zynga/Natural Motion Price: Free to play Dawn of Titans is a real-time strategy game that pushed the envelope on mobile graphics. It debuted in 2016, and I’ve enjoyed playing it over the years, particularly whenever I want to see cool graphics of an army on a battlefield taking on a giant titan.
21. Clash Royale Above: The Clash Royale League world finals are headed to Japan.
Publisher: Supercell Price: Free to play It’s another aging game, but I’ve spent considerable time with this real-time strategy game since it debuted in 2016. It’s like a combination of a tower defense and multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) game, with only two lanes where you can send your attackers down. But it’s very addictive and involves a lot of strategic thinking. It has also become a major esport.
22. Donut County Publisher: Annapurna Interactive Price: $5 This game has a goofy story and goofy gameplay. You control a donut hole, which you move under objects. You swallow them, and with each new swallow, the hole gets larger.
23. Jurassic World: Alive Above: Jurassic World Alive Publisher: Ludia Price: Free to play You can find dinosaurs in your neighborhood or workplace with this location-based game that takes advantage of Google Maps technology. It also features augmented reality imagery of the beasts that once ruled the Earth.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
