Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Activision Blizzard plans to fire its chief financial officer; Netflix may hire him (updated) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Call of Duty: Black Ops 4's Blackout mode.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Activision Blizzard fell nearly 1 percent in after-hours trading today as the company filed a regulatory announcement saying that it plans to fire Spencer Neumann, the company’s chief financial officer. Activision Blizzard, the parent company whose divisions make the popular Overwatch and Call of Duty video games, did not specify the reason for the expected firing.
Such moves are rare, but they tend to affect stock prices, as any change in a company’s financial leadership is often cause for concern among investors.
The company said the firing for cause is “unrelated to the Company’s financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures.” The filing also said that “Neumann has been placed on a paid leave of absence from the company pending an opportunity for him to demonstrate why cause does not exist to terminate his employment or why termination of his employment is not otherwise justified.” During the past year, Activision Blizzard’s shares have fallen 26 percent. But it is still valued at $35.5 billion. Neumann joined Activision Blizzard in 2017, after serving at Disney. Dennis Durkin, the company’s chief corporate officer, will take on the CFO duties for now.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! CNBC reported that Neumann, 48, received $9.47 million in total compensation in Activision Blizzard’s most recent fiscal year. We have asked the company for comment.
[Updated: 12/31/18 10:56 p.m.: Reuters reported that Netflix plans to hire Neumann as CFO].
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
