Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Analysis Fear of a Netflix planet gripped entertainment world in 2018 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Netflix logo is shown in this illustration photograph in Encinitas, California October 14, 2014.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Netflix is a juggernaut.
 Netflix is a disaster.
 Up or down, the streaming service dominated conversations about the future of entertainment in 2018 as rivals tried to match it and Hollywood agonized about its impact on content.
Like that of many tech giants, Netflix’s stock went on a roller coaster ride, starting the year at $209.99 per share, soaring over the summer to $411, then plunging to $255.57 yesterday. Investors couldn’t make up their minds whether the company had become totally dominant or its massive spending on content meant that its business model was (wait for the obvious … ) a house of cards.
Whichever turns out to be right, the company’s influence can be seen everywhere.
Netflix reportedly spent $8 billion on original content in 2018, making it one of the largest producers in the world, with an overall content budget estimated to reach up to $13 billion.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! In the third quarter, the company reported 137 million subscribers globally. What’s more, its streaming service is available in almost every country, meaning that when a Netflix original show premieres it can immediately target an audience almost no other service can reach.
That has left tech and entertainment companies scrambling to catch up.
Netflix is seen as a motivation for the merger between Disney and Fox, which will have a combined estimated content budget of $22 billion. Disney is slated to launch its own streaming service in 2019, where it will feature its Marvel and Star Wars content as they disappear from Netflix.
Comcast is also acquiring London satellite broadcaster Sky, for a combined content budget of $21 billion.
And, of course, Apple is now betting big on original content in anticipation of its own possible streaming service.
But matching Netflix, no matter the content library, will continue to be a challenge, as Amazon has learned. Despite having some buzzworthy shows, Amazon video continues to offer a weak selection and frustrating user interface that make it unappealing.
Netflix retains a huge advantage in terms of both design across platforms and the data it has gathered from all those hours of viewing, which it uses to design new content and recommend more videos.
All this makes 2019 an intriguing year as the industry watches to see whether any of these efforts makes a dent in Netflix’s growth — and whether Netflix can keep up the pace to justify its debt spending on content.
For viewers, the year promises an embarrassment of choices. Whether that proves to be a good thing economically or creatively remains to be seen.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
