Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Gain access to over 2,000 documentaries with CuriosityStream Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Popular streaming sites like Netflix and Hulu have an incredible amount of content. With a single click, you can dial up most of your favorite shows and movies without having to deal with an increasingly antiquated cable connection — making it easy to binge-watch content any time, any place.
But when it comes to documentaries, these streaming services are surprisingly limited. They have a handful of popular titles but lack the trove of educational and fascinating documentary content that the curious mind demands.
CuriosityStream remedies this issue by offering a massive library of over 2,000 documentaries and series, and right now a two-year subscription is available for 25 percent off at just $29.99.
Brought to you by Discovery Communications founder and media visionary John Hendricks, this innovative service acts as the perfect combination of quality and quantity when it comes to both top-rated and lesser-known documentary features.
Each title on this service has been hand-picked by a dedicated team of professionals who know exactly what makes a great documentary stand out, and there are new titles being added on a regular basis.
CuriosityStream comes loaded with rich material that features interviews with renowned scientists and thinkers such as Stephen Hawking and David Attenborough and features unrivaled storytelling and visuals that demystify an almost endless number of topics under the umbrellas of science and nature to history and technology and beyond.
You’ll be able to stream this HD content on your desktop, mobile, and tablet devices, and discover new favorites and titles thanks to an intuitive recommendation tool that hand-picks what it thinks you’ll enjoy watching next. This subscription also grants you immediate access to all new content the moment it’s uploaded.
Uncover a massive trove of over 2,000 exciting and engaging documentary titles with a two-year subscription to CuriosityStream for just $29.99 — 25 percent off its usual price for a limited time.
VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
Want your products featured in VentureBeat Deals? Learn more about how to sell your products online! VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
