Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Ninja wins the Why Is This OK In Video Games Award Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Tyler “Ninja” Blevins is Twitch’s golden son. He plays Fortnite for audiences of tens of thousands of viewers. Ninja gained mainstream fame when he invited hip-hop artist Drake onto his channel, and he revealed that he makes $500,000 a month from viewers subscriptions. But while Ninja doesn’t hesitate to play games live with famous men, he refuses to invite women onto his channel.
“I don’t play with female gamers,” Ninja told Polygon.
 “If I have one conversation with one female streamer where we’re playing with one another, and even if there’s a hint of flirting, that is going to be taken and going to be put on every single video and be clickbait forever.” And that’s why Ninja wins our Bad Award for Why Is This OK In Video Games? You can listen to us discuss the award in the clip above or as part of the Bad Awards podcast below.
Ninja says that he won’t livestream with women because it will cause problems for him in his private life. And I don’t get why this is a valid excuse. He has no problem with streaming with men. He continues to regularly have male gamers on his channel, who then get the benefit of his audience. But he discriminates against an entire gender because it makes his life easier.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! I find this especially frustrating because if a man in a similar position in other entertainment industries said the same thing, they would be ostracized. If a late-night host like Jimmy Kimmel said he would no longer invite women guests onto his show, he would lose his job. He could explain that it was to protect his marriage, and no one would care. He would lose sponsors and would likely face a backlash from his audience.
But Twitch continues to hold up Ninja as their big star, and huge companies continue to sponsor him. He’s not just getting away with his exclusionary behavior, he’s thriving. And I don’t know why this is OK in the business of video games and livestreaming.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
