Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nintendo Switch Online service will debut in 2018 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Nintendo Switch Online is coming in 2018.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Nintendo will debut a paid multiplayer gaming service dubbed Nintendo Switch Online in September 2018.
The Kyoto, Japan-based company made the announcement during its earnings call for the third fiscal quarter ended December 31. Nintendo reported last night that it has sold 14.86 million Switch hybrid portable-home consoles since launching the system in March 2017.
Nintendo said that the new service will let players enjoy online gaming as well as a dedicated smartphone app that connects to your Switch system and helps you connect with friends for online play sessions in compatible games.
Above: Splatoon 2 screen for the Nintendo Switch Online app.
The first game to be compatible with the app will be Splatoon 2, the colorful multiplayer shooter game. It will give you access to SplatNet2, where you can see online battle stats, your gear, and more. With the iOS and Google Play app, you can send invites via social networks and messaging service to invite friends to play with you. Once connected, you can use voice chat with friends while in the online lobby and during online play, depending on the game.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Nintendo said it will charge $4 a month for a one-month membership, $8 for a three-month membership, or $20 for a 12-month membership. The online gameplay service will be free until the paid service launches later in 2018, and the same goes for the app. Nintendo did not say when it is starting a beta period. Subscribers will get to download a compilation of classic Nintendo titles.
The Japanese company reported nine-month profit of $1.26 billion on revenues of $7.88 billion for the period ended December 31, compared with net income of $947 million on revenues of $2.86 billion for the nine months ended December 31, 2016. During the nine months ended December 31, 2017, Nintendo sold 12.1 million Switch consoles, bringing the lifetime total to 14.86 million. That means that in 10 months, the Switch has sold more units than the entire lifetime of the previous console, the Nintendo Wii U.
Nintendo has also sold 47 million games to date for the Switch.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
