Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Exclusive This is the Huawei P20 Lite Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Huawei is preparing to launch its annual spring flagship, its P-series line, on March 27 in Paris. And while most of the hype from both the company and interested observers surrounds the triple-rear-camera P20 Pro, there are two other models in the lineup, and all three feature 18:9, nearly bezel-less displays — along with a controversial “notch” along the top of the screen to house a selfie cam and sensors.
Huawei P20 (with two, not three, rear cameras) pic.twitter.com/GRJbIS8NNY — Evan Blass (@evleaks) February 26, 2018 Even the most modest of these handsets, the P20 Lite (pictured up top) is no slouch with respect to specifications. According to someone who’s spent time using the device, it’s a 5.6-inch phone with a 1080 x 2250 fullscreen display and rear-mounted fingerprint scanner.
Powered by an octa core Kirin 659 chipset (in a 4 x 2.38GHz + 4 x 1.7GHz big.LITTLE configuration), P20 Lite will ship with Android 8.0 Oreo and contain 4GB of RAM, plus 64GB of internal storage and a 3520mAh battery.
On the back, its Leica co-developed dual camera array features a pair of 16-megapixel components, endowing it with hybrid zoom capabilities. EMUI 8.0 is employed for the user interface.
Neither pricing nor release details were shared at this time.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
