Close Search Skip to main content Site Navigation Research Overview Index GPT-4 DALL·E 3 API Overview Data privacy Pricing Docs ChatGPT Overview Enterprise Try ChatGPT Safety Company About Blog Careers Residency Charter Security Customer stories Search Navigation quick links Log in Try ChatGPT Menu Mobile Navigation Close Site Navigation Research Overview Index GPT-4 DALL·E 3 API Overview Data privacy Pricing Docs ChatGPT Overview Enterprise Try ChatGPT Safety Company About Blog Careers Residency Charter Security Customer stories Quick Links Log in Try ChatGPT Search Join us in shaping the future of technology Quick links View all open roles Play video The development of AI must be carried out with a knowledge of and respect for the perspectives and experiences that represent the full spectrum of humanity.
Read about our commitment to diversity Core values AGI focus We are committed to building safe, beneficial AGI that will have a massive positive impact on humanity's future.
Anything that doesn’t help with that is out of scope.
Intense and scrappy Building something exceptional requires hard work (often on unglamorous stuff) and urgency; everything (that we choose to do) is important.
Be unpretentious and do what works; find the best ideas wherever they come from.
Scale We believe that scale—in our models, our systems, ourselves, our processes, and our ambitions—is magic. When in doubt, scale it up.
Make something people love Our technology and products should have a transformatively positive effect on people’s lives.
Team spirit Our biggest advances, and differentiation, come from effective collaboration in and across teams. Although our teams have increasingly different identities and priorities, the overall purpose and goals have to remain perfectly aligned.
Nothing is someone else’s problem.
Benefits We know that well-being is at the center of everyday life. Our comprehensive benefits package supports you where you are, so you can take care of what matters today while confidently planning for the future.
For employees Health, dental, and vision insurance Mental healthcare support and services Commuter benefits 401(k) with generous matching Domestic conference budget for each employee Life & family Flexible working hours 20 weeks paid parental leave Life and AD&D insurance Fertility treatment and family planning coverage Flexible spending account for healthcare and dependent care Culture & development Annual learning & development stipend Employee resource groups Team-driven celebrations and events Daily breakfast, lunch, and dinner Freshly baked cookies Featured roles View all open roles Research Program Manager, Basic Research San Francisco, California, United States — Algorithms Apply now AI Policy Counsel San Francisco, California, United States — Legal Apply now Senior Manager, Strategic Sourcing (Non-Technology) San Francisco, California, United States — Finance Apply now Model Teacher (Contract) Remote or San Francisco HQ — Research, Engineering, Product Apply now Senior AI Product Counsel San Francisco, California, United States — Legal Apply now OpenAI Residency OpenAI Residency is a six-month program which offers a pathway to a full-time role at OpenAI for researchers and engineers who don’t currently focus on artificial intelligence.
OpenAI Residency links Read about OpenAI Residency Life at OpenAI The power of continuous learning Dec 23, 2022 December 23, 2022 Discovering the minutiae of backend systems Dec 8, 2022 December 8, 2022 I believe that my colleagues recognize the importance of what they’re building and genuinely care about the outcomes—this wasn’t necessarily the case with previous technological breakthroughs.
Anna Makanju Public Policy at OpenAI Resources OpenAI Charter Learn more OpenAI interview guide Learn more Commitment to diversity, equity & inclusion Learn more Research Overview Index GPT-4 DALL·E 3 API Overview Data privacy Pricing Docs ChatGPT Overview Enterprise Try ChatGPT Company About Blog Careers Charter Security Customer stories Safety OpenAI © 2015 – 2023 Terms & policies Privacy policy Brand guidelines Social Twitter YouTube GitHub SoundCloud LinkedIn Back to top
