Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Corsair channels its inner Sarah McLachlan for its #GPURescue campaign Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
PC component manufacturer Corsair is standing up to those who would abuse graphics cards by using them to mine Bitcoin-like cryptocurrencies … or at least it is pretending to do that for an April Fool’s Day joke.
On Corsair’s YouTube page, the company has uploaded a video titled “Stop GPU Abuse! #GPURESCUE.” This is a reference to ads for charity organizations like the ASPCA or the “Save the Ethiopian Children Campaign.” In those TV spots, musician Sarah McLachlan would explain just how bad things are for certain animals or actress Sally Struthers would walk along a street in Ethiopia.
 Corsair’s 70-second clip echoes that style with the stark text that highlights bleak facts and a somber backing soundtrack.
“Over 3 million graphics cards are sold to cryptocurrency miners every year,” the video explains in its intro. “Graphics cards that should be gaming are abused in the cryptocurrency mines.” Corsair claims that if you donate, you can help be an angel who saves a video card from a cryptocurrency mining rig. With your help, the card will end up inside a gaming PC, just like god intended. You’ll even get a picture of the GPU that you adopted.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The video ends with the methods by which you can give money, which include major credit cards, Paypal, and … Bitcoin.
Of course, this is all a gag. Crypto-mining is a serious problem that has driven up the cost of GPUs for the last year with no signs of stopping, but Corsair is not going to take your money to buy them back.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
