Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages How to force Windows 10 to download the April 2018 Update Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Microsoft today started to push out the free Windows 10 April 2018 Update.
 As always, this will be a gradual rollout, meaning not everyone will get the latest and greatest Windows 10 update on day one. Microsoft will slowly ramp up the release via Windows Update starting next week, but there’s no guarantee about the timing of when you will get it. If you don’t want to wait, you can get the latest and greatest update today.
The best way to do so is to use the Windows 10 Update Assistant. Otherwise, you will have to wait for Windows Update to serve the April 2018 Update to you. That’s the safe way — and the method Microsoft recommends — but if you’re OK disregarding this advice, fire up the Windows 10 computer you want to update. Next, head to microsoft.com/software-download/windows10 and click the blue “Update Now” button as pictured above. This will download the Windows 10 Update Assistant.
After opening the downloaded file (hit “Yes” if prompted to make changes to your device), you should see a screen like the one below. Click on the “Update Now” button on the bottom right.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The assistant will perform basic checks on your hardware and start the download process after 10 seconds if everything looks good (it should be if you already have Windows 10 installed).
You can keep using your computer while the update downloads, choose when to actually update, and roll it back if you do not like the April 2018 Update.
After verifying the download, the assistant will start preparing the update process automatically.
The assistant will automatically restart your computer after a 30-minute countdown. The actual installation can take up to 90 minutes. Click the “Restart now” button in the bottom right or the “Restart later” in the bottom left to delay it.
After your computer restarts (a few times), Windows 10 will go through the final steps to finish installing the update.
Finally, Edge will open up and greet you with a “Welcome to the April update” message. Installing major Windows 10 updates is a long process, but Microsoft has had quite a bit of practice now, and for most users it goes rather smoothly.
Given that the update is free, there is no reason for you not to get it as soon as possible. If you have trouble getting it manually, however, just wait until it is offered to you via Windows Update.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
