Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Wolfenstein II, Echo lead Nordic Game Awards 2018 finalists Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
MachineGames’ Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus and Danish studio Ultra Ultra’s Echo show the range of blockbusters and indies earning nominations from the Nordic Game Awards. The event has revealed its list of finalists, and it will announce the winners during the Nordic Game Conference from May 23 to May 25 Malmö, Sweden. It’s the 15th year the event has celebrated developers from that region.
Wolfenstein II is up awards in five categories and Echo is up for six — and they’re both jockeying for the bragging rights of Nordic Game of the Year. Other big titles like EA Dice’s Star Wars Battlefront 2 stand to win awards, but the list is mainly comprised of independent titles. The voxel flyer Fugl from Team Fugl, Tarsier Studios’ creepy platformer Little Nightmares , and Flamebait Games’ quirky painting game Passpartout: The Starving Artist all make multiple appearances.
Despite their reputation for icy climes, the Nordic countries have been a hotbed for games innovation. It features mobile chart-toppers like Rovio , Supercell , and King , alongside studios like Mojang, developer of the cultural phenomenon Minecraft.
 Smaller indie darlings have also emerged from the region, like Starbreeze Studios’ Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons and Arvi Teikari’s Baba Is You , which took home two awards at the Independent Games Festival earlier this year.
Here is the full list of nominees for the 15th annual Nordic Game Awards: Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Nordic Game of the Year A Hat in Time, developed by Gears for Breakfast, Denmark ECHO, developed by Ultra Ultra, Denmark Little Nightmares, developed by Tarsier Studios, Sweden Nex Machina, developed by Housemarque, Finland SteamWorld Dig 2, developed by Image & Form, Sweden Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus, developed by MachineGames, Sweden Nordic Game of the Year: Small Screen Milkmaid of the Milky Way, developed by Machineboy, Norway OCMO, developed by Team OCMO, Finland Pako 2, developed by Tree men games, Finland Returner 77, developed by Fantastic, Yes!, Denmark SteamWorld Dig 2, developed by Image & Form, Sweden Best Art ECHO, developed by Ultra Ultra, Denmark Little Nightmares, developed by Tarsier Studios, Sweden Milkmaid of the Milky Way, developed by Machineboy, Norway Nex Machina, developed by Housemarque, Finland Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus, developed by MachineGames, Sweden Best Game Design A Hat in Time, developed by Gears for Breakfast, Denmark ECHO, developed by Ultra Ultra, Denmark Little Nightmares, developed by Tarsier Studios, Sweden SteamWorld Dig 2, developed by Image & Form, Sweden Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus, developed by MachineGames, Sweden World to the West, developed by Rain AS, Norway Best Technology ECHO, developed by Ultra Ultra, Denmark Fugl, developed by Muunluun, Norway Sparc, developed by CCP, Iceland Star Wars Battlefront 2, developed by EA DICE, Sweden Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus, developed by MachineGames, Sweden Best Audio ECHO, developed by Ultra Ultra, Denmark Figment, developed by Bedtime Digital Games, Denmark Little Nightmares, developed by Tarsier Studios, Sweden Nex Machina, developed by Housemarque, Finland Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus, developed by MachineGames, Sweden Best Fun for Everyone A Hat in Time, developed by Gears for Breakfast, Denmark Fugl, developed by Muunluun, Norway Little Police, developed by Filimundus, Sweden OCMO, developed by Team OCMO, Finland Passpartout: The Starving Artist, developed by Flamebait Games, Sweden Best Debut A Hat in Time, developed by Gears for Breakfast, Denmark ECHO, developed by Ultra Ultra, Denmark Milkmaid of the Milky Way, developed by Machineboy, Norway OCMO, developed by Team OCMO, Finland Passpartout: The Starving Artist, developed by Flamebait Games, Sweden GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
