Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Disney wants to make shows exclusively for Twitter Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
( Reuters ) — Walt Disney will create live sports, news and entertainment programming specifically for Twitter’s social network, a move to attract online viewers and advertising revenue through digital video.
Comcastnetworks including NBC and MSNBC, Viacom’s Comedy Central, MTV and BET, and others also are developing content for the social network, according to a statement on Monday from Twitter announcing more than 30 deals for live and original programming.
Disney’s ESPN network plans a Twitter version of its flagship “SportsCenter” TV show with breaking news and analysis, the statement said. Twitter also will live stream ESPN’s “Fantasy Focus Live” podcast.
The deals will expand Twitter’s streaming video offerings and help Disney and others reach audiences online while traditional television viewing wanes. Video views on Twitter have doubled in the past year, the company said.
Under the agreement, Disney’s ABC broadcast network, the Disney Channels, Freeform and the company’s movie studio also will produce live programming for Twitter, the statement said.
Shares of Twitter jumped 4.5 percent to $30.31 after the deal with Disney was announced. Disney shares rose 1.1 percent to $100.33 following the record-setting debut of “Avengers: Infinity War.” Other companies that will provide video for Twitter include Hearst Magazines Digital Media, Will Packer Media and BuzzFeed News, plus sports leagues including Major League Baseball and Major League Soccer.
Twitter announced the deals in New York at the Digital Content Newfronts, where companies promote upcoming programming to advertisers.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
