Close Search Skip to main content Site Navigation Research Overview Index GPT-4 DALL·E 3 API Overview Data privacy Pricing Docs ChatGPT Overview Enterprise Try ChatGPT Safety Company About Blog Careers Residency Charter Security Customer stories Search Navigation quick links Log in Try ChatGPT Menu Mobile Navigation Close Site Navigation Research Overview Index GPT-4 DALL·E 3 API Overview Data privacy Pricing Docs ChatGPT Overview Enterprise Try ChatGPT Safety Company About Blog Careers Residency Charter Security Customer stories Quick Links Log in Try ChatGPT Search Transforming work and creativity with AI Quick links Get started For developers Models GPT GPT-4 is OpenAI’s most advanced system, producing safer and more useful responses.
Learn about GPT-4 Tabs Advanced reasoning Creativity Visual input Longer context With broad general knowledge and domain expertise, GPT-4 can follow complex instructions in natural language and solve difficult problems with accuracy.
Try on ChatGPT Plus Input Output Andrew: 11 am - 3 pm Joanne: 12 pm - 2 pm, 3:30 pm - 5 pm Hannah: 12 pm - 12:30 pm, 4 pm - 6 pm Common availability for a 30-minute meeting: 12 pm - 12:30 pm GPT-4 is more creative and collaborative than ever before. It can generate, edit, and iterate with users on creative and technical writing tasks, such as composing songs, writing screenplays, or learning a user’s writing style.
Try on ChatGPT Plus Input Output A beautiful Cinderella, dwelling eagerly, finally gains happiness; inspiring jealous kin, love magically nurtures opulent prince; quietly rescues, slipper triumphs, uniting very wondrously, xenial youth zealously.
GPT-4 can accept images as inputs and generate captions, classifications, and analyses.
Input Output There are many options for what you can make with these ingredients! Some possibilities include: - Pancakes or waffles - Crepes - French toast - Omelette or frittata - Quiche - Custard or pudding - Cake or cupcakes - Muffins or bread- Cookies or biscuits These are just a few examples, but the possibilities are endless! GPT-4 is capable of handling over 25,000 words of text, allowing for use cases like long form content creation, extended conversations, and document search and analysis.
Try on ChatGPT Plus Input Output Rihanna's Super Bowl LVII halftime show performance was special for a number of reasons. For one, it marked her first live performance in over five years, and it was her first time headlining the Super Bowl halftime show. Additionally, she made history by becoming the first person to perform at the Super Bowl while pregnant. The show itself was critically acclaimed, with many praising her high-energy performance and impressive vocals. It also garnered a massive viewership, becoming the second most-watched halftime show in history.
DALL·E DALL·E is an AI system that can create realistic images and art from a description in natural language.
Learn about DALL·E Tabs Image generation Outpainting Inpainting Variations DALL·E 2 can create original, realistic images and art from a text description. It can combine concepts, attributes, and styles.
Try DALL·E Input Output Output Output Navigation Go to slide 1 Go to slide 2 Go to slide 3 Go to slide 4 Go to slide 5 DALL·E 2 can expand images beyond what’s in the original canvas, creating expansive new compositions.
Try DALL·E Input Output DALL·E 2 can make realistic edits to existing images from a natural language caption. It can add and remove elements while taking shadows, reflections, and textures into account.
Try DALL·E Input Output Output Output Navigation Go to slide 1 Go to slide 2 Go to slide 3 Go to slide 4 Go to slide 5 DALL·E 2 can take an image and create different variations of it inspired by the original.
Try DALL·E Input Output Output Output Navigation Go to slide 1 Go to slide 2 Go to slide 3 Go to slide 4 Go to slide 5 Whisper Whisper is a versatile speech recognition model that can transcribe, identify, and translate multiple languages.
Whisper can transcribe speech into text and translate many languages into English.
Try in Playground Input 0:00 / 0:00 Output This is the Micro Machine Man presenting the most midget miniature motorcade of Micro Machines. Each one has dramatic details, terrific trim, precision paint jobs, plus incredible Micro Machine Pocket Play Sets. There's a police station, fire station, restaurant, service station, and more. Perfect pocket portables to take any place. And there are many miniature play sets to play with, and each one comes with its own special edition Micro Machine vehicle and fun, fantastic features that miraculously move. Raise the boatlift at the airport marina. Man the gun turret at the army base. Clean your car at the car wash. Raise the toll bridge. And these play sets fit together to form a Micro Machine world. Micro Machine Pocket Play Sets, so tremendously tiny, so perfectly precise, so dazzlingly detailed, you'll want to pocket them all. Micro Machines are Micro Machine Pocket Play Sets sold separately from Galoob. The smaller they are, the better they are.
Made for developers Get started Read documentation Chat Developers can use GPT-3 to build interactive chatbots and virtual assistants that can carry out conversations in a natural and engaging manner.
Embeddings With GPT-3, developers can generate embeddings that can be used for tasks like text classification, search, and clustering.
Analysis Developers can use GPT-3 to summarize, synthesize, and answer questions about large amounts of text.
Fine-tuning Developers can fine-tune GPT-3 on a specific task or domain, by training it on custom data, to improve its performance.
Ensuring responsible use of our models We help developers use best practices and provide tools such as free content filtering, end-user monitoring to prevent misuse, and specialized endpoints to scope API usage.
null links View product safety standards Built with OpenAI View all customer stories Government of Iceland How Iceland is using GPT-4 to preserve its language.
Stripe Stripe leverages GPT-4 to streamline user experience and combat fraud.
Research Overview Index GPT-4 DALL·E 3 API Overview Data privacy Pricing Docs ChatGPT Overview Enterprise Try ChatGPT Company About Blog Careers Charter Security Customer stories Safety OpenAI © 2015 – 2023 Terms & policies Privacy policy Brand guidelines Social Twitter YouTube GitHub SoundCloud LinkedIn Back to top
