Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Live AI is surfacing B2B sales opportunities in every interaction (VB Live) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Artificial intelligence has evolved to the point where any B2B sales organization that leverages AI will see measurable improvements in customer engagement, LTV, and overall sales. Learn more about how to seamlessly integrate AI into your workflows and hear about real-world results from leading brands in this VB Live event! Register here for free.
“For us, sales is customer operations and customer success,” says Ksenia Kouchnirenko, head of business systems at SurveyMonkey.
 “AI plays a crucial role in that front line, because we want to make sure that each interaction with the customer is the best interaction possible.” Data is the most essential part of powering any strategy, Kouchnirenko says, and AI lets you cast as wide a net at the infinite variety of metrics as possible. You’re not overwhelmed with a flood of data anymore — you’ve got the tools and the computing power to take a deep dive into that information and surface up insights not just on how well you did, but what you can do better with every customer interaction you enter into.
“It’s truly changing how organizations think about their customers, about their employees, and what they can do with that data,” she adds. For sales, she says, “AI is literally everything and the kitchen sink.” It has also opened up a whole new world of leads, Kouchnirenko says.
“We’re of the belief that sales come from anywhere, and great leads come from many different places,” she explains. “We want to make sure we don’t miss the customer operation opportunities like customer support or engagement.” Every interaction is logged, potential leads flagged and passed on to sales, and the interaction in the moment is shaped by AI tools that ensure that the customer service experience is handled by the right person, and the customer’s problems or questions are addressed.
“As you can imagine,” she says, “that’s not a single set of tools.” The mythical System X, where every sales need is addressed with an AI solution and everything works perfectly, does not exist yet, Kouchnirenko says. And implementing AI tools can still be a challenge if your company isn’t yet AI-ready, able to integrate these tools smoothly into the sales cycle.
“You can collect this amazing data, but how do you help everyone make sense of it in the right way?” she says.
But the wealth of data that can actually be put to real-world-results makes the challenge worth it — and means that getting AI-ready is a competitive imperative. To learn more about the advantages AI-powered sales tools are offering, what it means to be AI-ready, how to get there, and more, don’t miss this VB Live event.
Don’t miss out! Register here for free.
Attend this webinar and learn: AI fact versus fiction when it comes to sales How to build a data- and AI-friendly sales organization How leading brands build real results and how they do it Which AI tools actually bring results and which are still in development What’s next for AI and sales? Speakers: Rick Winslow , VP, Head of Digital Innovation & Transformation, Capital One Commercial Banking Jenny Lin , Data Scientist, Yelp Ksenia Kouchnirenko , Head of Business Systems, SurveyMonkey Marlene Jia , COO & CoFounder, TopBots Rachael Brownell , Moderator, VentureBeat Sponsored by Drift The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
