Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple reportedly poaches senior Intel staffers for secret Oregon hardware lab Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Apple's new hardware lab is said to be between Beaverton and Hillsboro, near Portland.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Apple has reportedly opened a “secret” hardware engineering lab in Washington County, Oregon and hired employees who previously held senior research and engineering positions at Intel. According to the Oregonian , the facility is at least the fourth to be opened by Apple in the state, though the lab’s exact location and purpose are presently unknown.
Despite online job postings mentioning nearby Portland, the report indicates that the lab is actually “near the border between Beaverton and Hillsboro,” a part of Oregon known more for hardware development than software or cloud companies. Hiring has apparently been ongoing since last November and has included “raiding” of Intel and other Oregon tech employers. Apple is specifically said to be looking for design verification expertise, referring to the process of validating mass-produced hardware’s conformance to specifications.
In April, Apple reportedly decided to begin transitioning its Mac computers from Intel processors to internally developed chips, a multi-step process that was projected to begin in 2020. Though Apple already maintains chip development labs in multiple cities, and uses self-developed CPU/GPU chips in mobile devices, the company is expected to need considerably more powerful processors for its desktop machines. Bringing on senior Intel personnel could assist in that effort.
Apple has previously opened offices throughout the Pacific Northwest to add talent from AI/machine learning and cloud companies.
 The new office is not expected to be related to Apple’s plan to open a fourth major U.S. campus, which recent rumors suggest will most likely to be located in North Carolina or Virginia.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
