Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages France’s Klaxoon raises $50 million for international expansion of its teamwork platform Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A Klaxoon brainstorm session.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Klaxoon today announced a $50 million round of funding, which the French company hopes will allow it to capitalize on the rapid word-of-mouth growth it has seen over the past two years.
Based in the northwestern city of Rennes, Klaxoon officially launched its employee collaboration product in 2015. It now has customers in 120 countries and boasts 1 million monthly active users, and it has garnered this growth without much in the way of marketing. This new funding signals a shift in strategy as the company pursues further expansion.
“We’re really going to be able to the expand the Klaxoon ecosystem,” said CEO Matthieu Beucher. “We really want to find partners who will help build a long-term vision.” Klaxoon is designed to make meetings more efficient while encouraging greater participation from all employees. It offers a $19 monthly subscription plan for its SaaS meeting service that works across just about any device and includes features like timekeeping, brainstorming tools, and an interactive white board. The company also sells what it calls the Klaxoon Box, which creates a closed Wi-Fi network that allows meeting attendees to tap into the service when there is no internet connection.
The latest round of funding was led by Idinvest Partners and included funding from previous investors, such as BPI, Sofiouest, Arkea, and White Star Capital Fund.
In addition to ramping up its marketing efforts, particularly in the U.S. — where Klaxoon is opening a New York City office — the company will use the money to boost R&D and product development, Beucher said. Klaxoon currently has 150 employees and plans to hire another 100 employees this year.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
