Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Kartridge brings Double Fine and Versus Evil to its PC game store Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Web and mobile gaming portal Kongregate is adding new games to its PC games marketplace, Kartridge.
 The platform is in closed beta, but it will arrive in open beta this summer with a raft of indie titles from developers such as Double Fine and Ninja Kiwi as well as publisher Versus Evil (which recently released Obsidian Entertainment’s Pillars of Eternity II ).
Kartridge has partnered with almost 50 developers to build a portfolio of games, with titles like Terrible Toybox’s point-and-click adventure Thimbleweed Park and Asymmetric Publications’ snarky cowboy role-playing game West of Loathing.
 Today’s announcement heralds the arrival of games like Double Fine ‘s Psychonauts and the remastered Day of the Tentacle, along with Ninja Kiwi’s Bloons series. Publisher Versus Evil will offer titles like Stoic’s The Banner Saga series and Gambrinous’s Guild of Dungeoneering.
Kongregate is still looking for developers who would like to port their titles, and in April, it shared some details about what the revenue share would look like for potential partners. The games it has helped ship as a publisher will also be on the platform.
Kartridge is the latest online marketplace to tackle the problem of indie game discoverability. It’s more similar to sites like Itch.io where people can download games to play, while other platforms like Jump are trying out a monthly subscription model that enables folks to stream games. Similarly, the game streaming platform Utomik recently launched out of a two-year open beta period with over 600 titles and a few first-day exclusives.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
