Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Orphan Age shows a dystopia where children have been left behind Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Orphan Age is a simulator game where the children have inherited the earth — but unfortunately, it’s been ravaged by war. French indie developer Studio Black Flag is launching a Kickstarter campaign for it today, and a playable alpha demo is available now. The team is aiming for a release on PC this December.
Much like 11 Bit Studios’ excellent survival sim game, This War of Mine , Orphan Age is all about the civilian casualties of conflict. Players are responsible for a ragtag group of children, each of whom has different skills. They must gather resources, build, and attempt to eke out a living in a bombed-out city as war rages around them. Theirs is a futuristic dystopian world, and players will determine if they become looters or hackers, all in the name of survival.
“Orphan Age is an extremely personal project for me, that I’ve been working on it on and off for around nine years now. It really is a passion project for me and I can’t wait finally be able to share more about it,” said Studio Black Flag founder Adrien Forestier in a statement.
Like This War of Mine and 11 Bit’s recent successful icy steampunk game Frostpunk , Studio Black Flag seems like it wants the player to deliberate over the morality of their decisions. Some interesting choices could arise, especially since the game centers on a group of children. Though Orphan Age seems grim, hopefully it won’t devolve into an all-out The Lord of the Flies situation.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “The game has a strong message that we’re not shying away from,” said Forestier. “We wanted to turn the often idyllic backdrop of the life-sim genre on its head, and ask the question what will the future we have made be like for our children to grow up in.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
