Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Data encryption startup Virtru raises $37.5 million to target enterprise security Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Virtru CTO Will Ackerly (left) and CEO John . Ackerly (right).
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Virtru , a provider of email encryption and data protection solutions, announced today that it has raised a $37.5 million round of funding. Iconiq Capital led the round and was joined by existing investors Bessemer Venture Partners, New Enterprise Associates, Samsung, Blue Delta Capital, and Soros Capital.
Founded in 2011 by former NSA engineer Will Ackerly and his brother John, Virtru has developed a form of encryption called the Trusted Data Format. Essentially, it encloses each piece of content in its own “protective wrapper,” which encrypts the information. One of the benefits of Virtru, according to CEO John Ackerly, is that it integrates with email providers like Gmail and Microsoft Outlook through a browser extension and application, so it’s not a standalone service like Proton Mail. In March, the company also released its own API , called the Virtru Data Protection Platform, so that organizations can embed Virtru encryption onto any platform.
Accounts for individual users are free, while accounts for businesses cost $60 per user. According to the company, roughly 8,000 organizations use Virtru’s services, up from 4,000 almost two years ago. Customers include universities, corporations, and law enforcement agencies. Virtru also said in its press release that its revenue has tripled over the past year, but John Ackerly declined to give further information.
With the new round of capital, Virtru is interested in working more with corporations looking to protect other types of enterprise content, like shared files in Dropbox and Google Drive, as well as data stored in the cloud. “We started with email because it was ubiquitous, and it’s been such a hard problem to solve,” John Ackerly told VentureBeat in a phone interview.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Virtru has 75 employees, and this new round of funding brings its total raised to roughly $70 million.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
