Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook edged out of top 3 social networks by U.S. teens Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Facebook is losing ground among U.S. teenagers ages 13-17. According to a Pew Research Report released today, Snapchat, Instagram, and YouTube are now more popular than Facebook, a social network with more than two billion monthly active users worldwide.
Among teens that took part in the survey, 85 percent say they use YouTube, followed by 72 percent for Instagram, 69 percent for Snapchat, and 51 percent for Facebook.
Though the Facebook app was edged out of the top 3 among teens, Facebook Inc. is Instagram’s parent company.
Only 10 percent of teenagers who took part in the survey said they use Facebook more than any other social media app.
Numbers released today stand in sharp contrast to the last time Pew conducted the poll.
 In 2015, Facebook was still most popular among teens, garnering 71 percent of the 13-17 audience, more than any other social network. Back then, Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat, and Twitter were the most popular social media apps among teenagers.
The survey of 743 U.S. teens ages 13 to 17 was conducted between March 7 and April 10, according to Pew.
Smartphone penetration has intensified since the last time Pew conducted its poll, with 95 percent of teens today reporting that they have a smartphone, compared to nearly 75 percent in 2015.
Forty-five percent of teens say they’re online on a near-constant basis, compared to 24 percent in 2015, but teens aren’t the only ones consuming large amounts of digital content. The Internet Trends Report from Kleiner Perkins partner Mary Meeker released yesterday found that average time spent using social media has increased from 90 minutes in 2012 to 135 minutes in 2017.
The amount of time adults spend on digital media per day has grown from 2.7 hours in 2008 to 5.9 hours in 2017.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
