Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release IOST Launches Blockchain Testnet to the Public Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The enterprise-grade blockchain infrastructure boasts one of the highest transaction per second speeds in the industry SAN FRANCISCO–(BUSINESS WIRE)–June 29, 2018– IOST , an enterprise-grade blockchain infrastructure for online services, officially launched its testnet to the public today. Its Testnet v0.5 ‘Everest’ achieves one of the highest transaction per second speeds in the blockchain industry and includes a range of functionality for developers to build upon.
Backed by $40 million from world-class investors, including Sequoia China and Matrix, and led by a team of repeat founders, IOST is laying the foundation for an ultra-high TPS network that meets the security and scalability needs of a decentralized economy. Its mission is to be the underlying architecture for the future of online service providers globally.
“We have been hard at work for the past year laying the foundation for a next-generation blockchain infrastructure. Testnet launches are a key point when a blockchain project can be experienced as a functional prototype of a ‘final product’ – where it crosses over from theory to function.” – Terrence Wang, CTO The Everest Test Network is deployed in a real-world environment and runs on multiple nodes deployed in Tokyo, London, Singapore, Mumbai, Frankfurt, Seoul, and Montreal.
Features of Everest v0.5: IOST consensus mechanism: Proof of Believability (PoB) running in a real network environment Average throughput between 7,000-8,000 transactions per second Smart contracts system featuring key-value pair storage, inter-contract API calls, and multiple signatures API-oriented smart contracts to quickly write and deploy code Blockchain Explorer to display transactions and blocks ‘Playground’ to test smart contracts locally Ability to build private IOST test networks Ability to run IOST testnet nodes IOST has been aggressively expanding its ecosystem over the last three months and recently launched two separate organizations with strong institutional backing to develop the IOST ecosystem: Bluehill : a blockchain incubator and accelerator that recently raised $50 million. Bluehill provides crucial backing for IOST industry partnerships and projects built within the IOST ecosystem.
Theseus is an IOST-incubated R&D team dedicated to pushing the envelope in blockchain technology and paving the way for the IOST developer community.
IOST will implement two more testnet releases before launching its mainnet by end of 2018.
The original IOST announcement can be found here: https://medium.com/iost/public-testnet-launch-iost-everest-v0-5-b9b2ad9fb209 View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180629005681/en/ IOST Ben Waters, 628-213-9924 ben@iost.io VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
