Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Ontology and Partners Participate in MainNet Pre-Launch Event in San Francisco Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn SAN FRANCISCO–(BUSINESS WIRE)–June 30, 2018– Ontology, a new high-performance public multi-chain project and a distributed trust collaboration platform, held a pre-launch of its MainNet on June 26th. It was announced that Ontology 1.0 will be officially released on June 30th.
At the launch, Ontology’s Founder Jun Li gave a detailed introduction to the product structure, technical features, and governance models of the Ontology MainNet (Ontology 1.0) to one hundred blockchain industry elites from China and the USA. Ontology 1.0 provides new high-performance public blockchains that include a series of complete distributed ledgers and smart contract systems, and at the same time supports public chain customization and chain network collaboration, while continuously providing common modules in various distributed applications.
Public chain basic services, a high-performance customisable blockchain framework, and protocol groups are the three key components of Ontology’s infrastructure. Ontology 1.0 includes a decentralised identity authentication protocol, distributed data management protocol, and credit score protocol. At the application level, the integrated client product (ONTO), trust search engine, and distributed data exchange framework will provide strong technical support.
Ontology partners attended to discuss blockchain technology solutions in real business scenarios. Partners who attended included: Contentos, who are committed to creating the world’s most extensive digital content public chain to reshape the content ecosystem; DAD (Decentralised Advertising), a blockchain digital advertisement platform; COT (Chains of Things), a smart hardware infrastructure solution platform; and CarBlock, the world’s first decentralised car market based on vehicle data.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180629005841/en/ Ontology Qing Mu contact@ont.io VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
