Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Opinion ProBeat: Windows 10 dropping Sets (again) is for the best Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Microsoft has lately been releasing Windows 10 builds on a weekly cadence. Because of a bug last week, however, this week’s build brought more than the average number of improvements (and bugs). And yet, the highlight of this build was not what was added, but what was removed: Sets.
Sets, which isn’t necessarily the feature’s final name, lets you use tabs to run multiple apps in a single window. The idea is that you should be able to open new tabs in a given window for whatever you’re working on: relevant webpages, research documents, necessary files, and so on. Sets completely flips the idea of “windows” in Windows on its head, as one app’s window can be used to open other apps in tabs. Just like a web browser lets you open tabs for different websites , not just pages from the same site, Sets lets you open tabs for different apps , not just instances of the same app.
Sets was first shown off in November 2017 and quickly made its way to Windows Insiders the following month. The feature was, however, pulled from Windows 10 builds in January 2018 and didn’t make the cut for the Windows 10 April 2018 Update (RS4 branch). It returned to the RS5 branch in March 2018 , which represents the Windows 10 update that will ship later this year, only to be removed this week.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Here is what Microsoft said in this week’s build about the matter: Thank you for your continued support of testing Sets. We continue to receive valuable feedback from you as we develop this feature helping to ensure we deliver the best possible experience once it’s ready for release. Starting with this build, we’re taking Sets offline to continue making it great. Based on your feedback, some of the things we’re focusing on include improvements to the visual design and continuing to better integrate Office and Microsoft Edge into Sets to enhance workflow. If you have been testing Sets, you will no longer see it as of today’s build, however, Sets will return in a future WIP flight. Thanks again for your feedback.
I asked Microsoft whether this means Sets won’t make it into the next Windows 10 update. A spokesperson was not willing to comment, but did point me to the first blog post announcing Sets, and highlighted the section that notes features likes Sets “will be broadly available when they are ready, not necessarily tied to the next major update.” Microsoft had never said Sets would ship with RS4 (nor RS5 for that matter), but Windows Insiders were nonetheless hopeful. We can’t therefore call this a “delay” — there was never a date tied to the arrival of Sets.
I think the main reason I’m so excited about Sets is because it’s such a fundamental change. I will, however, be the first to admit that the feature is still far from ready.
Sets works across several applications, from basics like Notepad and the Command Prompt to more complex ones like File Explorer and the various Office apps. But those are first-party apps, and Microsoft needs to make sure the feature doesn’t break myriad third-party Windows software — nowadays that means supporting both Win32 and UWP versions. It also means smoothly handling games that can be played in windowed mode, media that plays in the background, and all the other wonderful things that Windows lets you do.
This is a feature that Microsoft has to get right. It isn’t something you can release, only to fix as you go. It’s a critical part of how the operating system functions.
In fact, if Sets does make its way into Windows 10 one day, it will mean that you could keep your workflow within a single window.
 The very nature of windows in Windows would be transformed.
At that point, the operating system would be more aptly called Window, Sets, or even Tabs. Microsoft isn’t going to rename its flagship product, of course, but it does underscore how central this feature is.
Take your time, Microsoft.
ProBeat is a column in which Emil rants about whatever crosses him that week.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
