Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Virtual Fighting Championship is a first-person VR Street Fighter Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Competitive gamers have dreamed about a compelling first-person fighting game ever since Capcom redefined side-scrolling fighting with Street Fighter II. Now Australian indie developer L&L Studio says it will launch a promising contender called Virtual Fighting Championship (VFC) through Steam Early Access on July 13 — the first step in creating an esport-worthy first-person VR fighting game.
After two years of development, VFC looks like it’s off to a great start, placing HTC Vive and Oculus Rift headset users inside their choice of several fighters’ bodies. Looking through your character’s eyes, you see your hands as they’re gripping two controllers, using real arm and body motions to attack, block, dodge, and perform Street Fighter-style special moves. Unlike most fighters, VFC will actually give players a workout, and the game will track calories burned during each match.
VFC will also support full-body motion capture so leg motions and attacks can be used by combatants — a feature that may benefit players with real-world martial arts skills. But even with standard motion controllers, the virtual character’s moves can reflect the player’s real world gestures. A demo video shows characters doing Fortnite-style dances and warmup stretches based on player actions when they’re not fighting.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! L&L requires VFC players to have an open six-by-six-foot play area and 360-degree tracking support. At launch, training, single-player campaign, and local multiplayer modes will keep players busy, but L&L’s goal is to turn VFC into a competitive VR esport, including online matchmaking and ranking.
Less than ideally, VFC is debuting with only a few playable characters and backgrounds. Balanced fighter Karl has a fire fist power, while Poison is a gas-wielding weirdo with healing powers, and “graceful trap master” Fala has electric discs and laser beam powers. Three initial stages include a futuristic beach, an urban arena, and a set of platforms hovering in the sky.
In the absence of a full VR one-on-one fighting game from the usual suspects — Bandai Namco, Capcom, Sega, or SNK, to name a few — L&L has a solid chance of building Virtual Fighting Championship into a legit VR esports contender through the Early Access feedback and development process. We’ll be watching for new character reveals and other major developments after the title hits Steam next month.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
