Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Battlefield V delay causes Electronic Arts’ stock to dive Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn See the realistic reflection on the side of the car in Battlefield V with Nvidia RTX.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Electronic Arts has pushed Battlefield V out of October in favor of a November 20 release date.
 The publisher cited the need for “final adjustments,” but investors don’t seem interested in the excuse. EA’s stock price has dropped 9 percent from $128.52 at the end of Wednesday down to $116.68, according to Google Finance.
Battlefield developer DICE says that it will use the delay to improve the mechanics and to add more content to its Tides of War live service, which regularly adds new content to the World War II shooter. Waiting to get a better game at launch seems like a good thing, and Baird Equity Research analyst Colin Sebastian agrees with that — especially because it helps Battlefield dodge some of the holidays bigger games.
“We note this is an unusually late delay for a holiday video game release,” said Sebastian. “But the October release squeezed between COD and RDR was already challenging, and our experience suggests there is usually a favorable trade-off over the longer term when sacrificing near-term sales for improved product quality.” Above: EA’s stock price is hurting.
The market’s negative reaction is in response to EA’s disclosure that the delay has forced the company to reduce its financial outlook. It has dropped its fiscal year guidance down by $350 million — although only a portion of that is due to the Battlefield V delay.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! But EA’s stock price is likely also going through a corrective period. It is down from an all-time high of nearly $150 in July, and it is looking for its next hit. While it can consistently rely on revenue from FIFA Ultimate Team and Madden, it is looking to establish its next major blockbuster shooter. Battlefield V is looking promising, but it also faces skepticism from some fans and tough competition from Call of Duty: Black Ops 4, PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds, and Fortnite. Then in March, EA’s BioWare team launches its new online role-playing shooter, Anthem.
Even if either of those games are hits, EA still hasn’t proven that it can generate revenue from an ongoing game-as-a-service in a way that does not rely on loot boxes. That business model, where players pay for boxes that may or may not contain a desirable digital item, has fallen out of fashion fast as fans lashed out against it and regulators started looking into it as potential gambling.
So EA may have to prove that it can turn Battlefield V and Anthem into successes, and Sebastian is confident that it will.
“While there may be some lingering concerns over EA product development and execution, we believe a one-month delay in exchange for a stronger game is likely a worthwhile tradeoff,” said Sebastian. “No change to price target or our longer-term positive views on EA.” Sebastian has a price target of $154 for EA and expects it to keep outperforming its current price.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
