Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Heartland Tech Weekly: How can Silicon Valley best assist other startup communities? Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
In a recent video interview with CNBC (embedded below) LinkedIn founder Reid Hoffman says that one thing he would like to see more of in Silicon Valley is people assisting startup communities in other parts of the country.
“We want more areas in the U.S. and the world to be entrepreneurial hot houses where they’re growing lots of interesting, entrepreneurial companies,” Hoffman told CNBC. “There are people in Silicon Valley doing that, I just want more of them.” The idea of bridging the gap between Silicon Valley and the rest of the country is something we talk about a lot here in the Heartland Tech section. And I’ve seen some progress on that front in the past year — from the “Comeback Cities” tour to a notable array of Silicon Valley LPs investing in last year’s “ Rise of the Rest ” seed fund.
But I think it’s time to move the conversation from “How do we get more people in Silicon Valley to work with startup communities in other parts of the country?” to “What kind of assistance do we need from Silicon Valley?” I worry that Silicon Valley investors will think they’ve done enough for the Heartland if they simply fly in to judge a few pitch competitions, or write a few angel checks.
How do you think Silicon Valley folks can best assist startup communities in the Heartland, besides opening up their checkbook? If you have any thoughts, please send them to me via email.
As always, thanks for reading, Anna Hensel Heartland Tech Reporter Featured Video Check out this video from CNBC, “ How Reid Hoffman would change Silicon Valley if he had a magic wand ” From the Heartland Tech channel IBM acquires Red Hat for $34 billion IBM has acquired Red Hat for $34 billion to diversify its technology hardware and consulting business into higher-margin products and services.
Beyond VB Illinois launches program to test driverless cars Illinois launched a new autonomous vehicle initiative this week as it looks to begin researching and testing the emerging technology that many other states have already embraced.
(via American Inno) The tech companies spending to oppose and support San Francisco’s Homelessness Tax Almost $7 million is bankrolling a fight over whether businesses should pay for the city’s homeless crisis.
(via CityLab) Wisconsin’s $4.1 billion Foxconn Boondoggle Republican Gov. Scott Walker and Foxconn chairman Terry Gou announced their plan to create a heavily subsidized manufacturing plant in southeastern Wisconsin while promising billions to get a Foxconn factory, but now he’s running away from it.
(via TheVerge) Walmart’s test store for new technology, Sam’s Club Now, opens next week in Dallas Walmart’s warehouse club, Sam’s Club is preparing to open the doors at a new Dallas area store that will serve as a testbed for the latest in retail technology.
(via TechCrunch) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
