Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release iMerit Selected as a 2018 Red Herring Top 100 Global Company Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn SARATOGA, Calif.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–October 31, 2018– iMerit, a digital data services company which trains algorithms in machine learning, computer vision and analytics, has been named to the 2018 Red Herring Top 100 Global list.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181031005322/en/ Red Herring’s Top 100 Global list is a mark of distinction for identifying promising global companies. Red Herring was among the first to recognize the potential of companies like Facebook, Twitter, Google, Skype, Salesforce, YouTube, and eBay. The list is based on both quantitative and qualitative criteria, such as financial performance, technology innovation, management quality and strategy.
Radha Ramaswami Basu, CEO, iMerit, said , “We are honored to be recognized by Red Herring for our work. We are creating the workforce of the future which can train AI algorithms and data analytics for a variety of applications in computer vision, e-commerce and finance. We focus on building strong solutions for our global customers who are going through rapid changes in their digital transformation.” iMerit’s “humans in the loop” services are recognized globally. It works on the data that powers transformative technologies such as driverless cars, aerial image analysis, and cancer cell detection. iMerit has a unique for-profit social impact model which hires and trains people from under-resourced backgrounds to participate in the digital economy. 80 percent of iMerit’s team comes from impact backgrounds with over half being women.
“Choosing the companies with the strongest potential was by no means a small feat,” said Alex Vieux, CEO of Red Herring.
“After rigorous contemplation and discussion, we narrowed our list down from hundreds of candidates from across the globe to the Top 100 Winners. We believe iMerit embodies the vision, drive and innovation that define a successful entrepreneurial venture. iMerit should be proud of its accomplishment.” About iMerit iMerit works with customers to enrich and label their data to achieve the best results from their algorithms. iMerit’s work powers advanced algorithms in machine learning, computer vision, natural language understanding, e-commerce, augmented reality and data analytics. Our team of over 1,600 full time staff includes over 50% women. We work on data for transformative technologies such as advancing cancer cell research, optimizing crop yields and training driverless cars to understand their environment. The company drives social and economic change by tapping into an under-resourced talent pool and creating digital inclusion. For more information, visit: www.imerit.net.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181031005322/en/ iMerit Gourav Choudhary pr@imerit.net VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
