Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Konami probably isn’t deleting P.T. for Halloween Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn P.T. is almost as scary as Konami itself.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
It’s Halloween, and that means it’s time for a spooky story. This one involves the scariest monster of all time: video game publisher Konami.
 On a dark and stormy night in the unholy year of 2015, the Metal Gear Solid company pulled its free horror game P.T. (Playable Teaser) from the PlayStation Network. And since then, the publisher has lurked in the shadows waiting for a chance to kill the game for good.
And today, rumors began to spread that sinister force had finally struck. But this doesn’t seem like it’s the case.
Konami later confirmed that it has not made any changes. A spokesperson for the company provided the following statement (and now I’m probably going to die in seven days): “After our investigation we can confirm that there have been no Konami or PlayStation Network update that would have affected or prevent access to the game.” P.T. is a teaser for Silent Hills, a horror sequel to the Silent Hill franchise. Konami canceled Silent Hills as part of a retreat from console video games. But its legacy has lived on in the systems of anyone who downloaded P.T. before the publisher expunged it from the store. While Konami pitched P.T. as a glorified game announcement, many people consider it a thrilling horror experience.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! But when one person on Reddit tried to boot the game up for Halloween , it would not work. In the information section, they found that it was “ineligible” to start. And ominously, the system said that an update went out for the game on October 22, 2018. People jumped to the conclusion that Konami must’ve pushed out a patch to end the game for good.
Since this initial scare, however, other people have successfully started P.T. It seems like it still works for just about everyone. And if people are encountering errors, it’s possible that it is the result of them changing their names on PlayStation Network. Sony introduced that feature recently, and it warned players that it could break certain games.
Updated on November 2 at 9:45 a.m. with statement from Konami.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
