Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nintendo chief says beefing up Switch sales is the main task in his strategy Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Nintendo Switch.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Nintendo is doing what it can to keep sales going for the Switch, which sold a disappointing 5 million units in the last six months that ended September 30. Nintendo’s new boss said in an analyst briefing that the Nintendo Switch remains on a stable growth trajectory.
Shuntaro Furukawa, who became president of Nintendo on June 28, said that the company’s strategy has been to widen the software library to broaden the appeal of the Nintendo Switch.
The company is continually updating add-on content for games, like Mario Kart 8 Deluxe and Splatoon 2, which both received updates since April. Nintendo has also held limited-time events like the Splatoon 2 World Champion and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate exhibition matches. These events are places where crowds can “feel the energy of our game communities,” Furukawa said. More events are coming, like the Nintendo Live 2018 event coming in November.
Nintendo’s evergreen titles — Super Mario Odyssey, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, and Splatoon 2 — are sustaining their sales momentum, Furukawa said.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! He also said that the Nintendo Switch Online paid service had a good launch in September. He noted that consumers who have purchased a subscription have opted for a 12-month family or individual membership are more than half of total subscribers. Downloadable versions of packaged software are now 60 percent of all digital sales.
“Software publishers have been releasing everything from evergreen titles that appeal to broad audiences to titles that satisfy ardent game fans, and the sell-through of these products has been solidk,” Furukawa said.
Fortnite Battle Royale has been downloaded to almost half of all Switch units sold to date. And he said that Square Enix has seen more than 1 million copies downloaded for Octopath Traveler on the Switch.
As of October, there were more than 500 software publishers selling more than 1,300 titles on the Switch.
Super Mario Party debuted on October 5 and it has sold more than 1.5 million units. Furukawa said he expects it to become another evergreen title. Next, the big games include Pokemon: Let’s Go Pikachu! and Pokemon: Let’s Go Eevee!, both debuting in November. And of course Super Smash Bros. Ultimate is the big title coming on December 4.
Amiibo sales of toys based on Nintendo characters have reached 50 million in sales. Furukawa said he believes sales of Nintendo Labo, a do-it-yourself kit will pick up as a new evergreen title.
Meanwhile, Super Mario Run has been installed more than 300 million times on mobile devices, and downloads outside of Japan are nearly 90 percent of the total.
“I’d like to say that the most important thing for this holiday season is further uptake of Nintendo Switch,” Furukawa said. “In the current fiscal year, new major titles’ release for Nintendo Switch are concentrated in the third quarter. We have established a firm footing ahead of what will be the second holiday season for Nintendo Switch, and we plan to offer new software so more people come to know and enjoy the charm of Nintendo Switch.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
