Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Leap Motion reportedly screwed up Apple acquisition talks, twice Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn David Holz, founder of Leap Motion, shows off hand-tracking in VR.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Augmented and virtual reality startup Leap Motion has created undeniably “ amazing ” hand-tracking hardware that could be used for both work and gaming, but a new report from Business Insider suggests that its business acumen isn’t quite as impressive. Over the past five years, Leap Motion “blew” two separate acquisition attempts by Apple for reasons that aren’t entirely clear, but appear to be due to its executives’ unrealistic expectations.
According to the report, Apple first met with Leap Motion cofounders Michael Buckwald and David Holz about an acquisition in 2013, discussing the prospect of acquiring the company to bolster Apple’s then-nascent mixed reality initiatives. With only the rarest of exceptions, Apple generally subsumes acquired companies, integrating their small teams and projects into its own structures.
That was apparently Apple’s plan for Leap Motion, as well. The Cupertino company planned to purchase Leap’s team of employees and IP, but wasn’t interested in the company’s key accessory — an $80 box capable of translating complex hand motions into gesture inputs for computers. Leap Motion’s device has clear applications for bringing hand and finger gestures into virtual enterprise and gaming spaces.
Holz reportedly appeared disinterested in the offer, telling the company that it “was no longer innovative” and “that its technology ‘sucked,’ ” before going on to praise Google’s rival mobile operating system Android. A former Leap Motion employee claims Holz effectively said, “I’m never going to go work for those guys, they’re the devil,” and the potential buyout was scuttled.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Despite the failure of the initial attempt, and growing signs of Leap Motion’s financial instability, Apple continued to express interest in the company — and in the absence of a deal, wound up hiring some of its employees to work on AR products. For its part, Leap Motion followed up its hand-tracking accessory by creating a bizarre-looking AR headset design called North Star , which it quickly open-sourced to spur innovation within the AR community.
In the late spring of this year, Apple apparently tried to buy the company again, offering between $30 to $50 million, and came close enough that formal offer letters and HR benefits packages were sent out. But the deal again “mysteriously fell through,” this time apparently due to the founders’ insistence that Leap Motion was worth more than that.
The startup has been valued at as much as $306 million, but hasn’t generated enough revenue to reach investors’ performance goals — the hand-tracking accessory has a limited market, and the company isn’t actually selling the AR headset it created. In recent months, Leap Motion has lost employees and left its expensive San Francisco offices, the report notes, and is now taking meetings with other companies to explore potential deals. Whether it remains independent or winds up acquired by someone appears to be largely a question of whether it’s willing to accept a lower offer than it might have achieved at the peak of its potential.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
