Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sensor Tower: Black Friday was biggest day ever for U.S. mobile game revenues Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Black Friday saw $55.8 million spent on mobile games in the U.S.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
People spent an estimated $55.8 million on mobile games in the U.S. App Store and Google Play on November 23, making Black Friday 2018 the single largest day for the category in history, according to measurement firm Sensor Tower.
It shows that the same excitement around Black Friday spending with other kinds of holiday shopping has come to mobile games. Combined U.S. gaming revenue across both stores grew 23.8 percent from Black Friday in 2017, compared to the 23.4 percent it grew between 2016 and 2017, Sensor Tower said.
U.S. player spending on Apple’s App Store accounted for most revenue on Black Friday, reaching an estimated $35.2 million or 63 percent of the total. On Google Play, players spent $20.6 million, or 37 percent of all gross revenue for the day.
Sensor Tower said mobile game revenue on the App Store grew 23.3 percent year-over-year, while on Google Play was up 24.7 percent over Black Friday 2017. In terms of the percentage of total revenue on both stores games contributed last Friday, they made up about 68 percent of spending on the App Store compared to 86 percent on Google Play. In other words, games still rule mobile.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: Sensor Tower tracked Black Friday growth over time. 2018 broke records.
Supercell had two of the top 10 grossing mobile games across both stores for the day, including Clash of Clans at No. 1 with an estimated $2.1 million in revenues and Clash Royale at No 5. with $920,000 spent by its players on in-app purchases.
Fortnite from Epic Games was a standout at No. 4, thanks almost entirely to App Store revenue at $1.2 million. This figure was 86 percent higher than the $646,000 that Sensor Tower estimated the game grossed on the preceding Friday.
Above: Top games of Black Friday 2018.
Most of these games benefited from special deals on in-app purchases and limited-time bundles for Black Friday that drove players to buy into them.
The record for Black Friday is beat every year, said Randy Nelson, head of mobile insights at Sensor Tower, in an email. But he said the all-time revenue record is typically broken on Christmas.
“In other words, if you look at the historical data, Black Friday 2017 was smaller in terms of total mobile game revenue than Christmas 2016. This year, Black Friday was actually larger than Christmas 2017. This bodes well for Christmas 2018 in terms of spending in mobile games,” Nelson said.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
