Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google doubles Hangouts Meet limit to 100 participants Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Hangouts Meet: Now supports 100 participants Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google is doubling the number of participants that can chat simultaneously through the G Suite communications platform Hangouts Meet.
Hangouts Meet emerged last year after Google announced it was splitting the Hangouts platform into two core services: Hangouts Chat, a Slack-like platform for teams , and Hangouts Meet, a Skype-like videoconferencing application.
Updates Google has given Hangouts Meet a bunch of upgrades since its original launch, and exactly one year ago today the company extended videoconferencing support from 30 to 50 participants for G Suite Enterprise subscribers. Today, Google is expanding that figure to 100, while those on the G Suite Business or Education tier will be bumped up from 25 to 50 simultaneous participants.
Above: Hangouts Meet: Now supports 100 people It’s worth noting here that these numbers aren’t restricted to internal employees — anyone can dial in as a guest to participate in audio only, as long as the overall number doesn’t exceed 100.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! For comparison, Skype for Business supports up to 250 people , so G Suite still has a little bit of catching up to do. However, a few months back Google opened up Hangouts Meet to livestreaming , allowing companies to broadcast events, meetings, or messages from the CEO to up to 100,000 people — this is available in view-only mode.
The new expanded participant support will be rolling out to subscribers over the next few days.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
