Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Feature 2019 was the year things got weird for video games Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The best game that did something new.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The video games industry is odd.
 This is a business where the leading companies regularly reset their market share every five-to-seven years. But over the last 12 months, we’ve seen a number of new trends that make video games seem like an even stranger beast — and one that is ready to change again.
The ways in which this industry are changing are plentiful, but they all seem like they are springing from the same underlying reasoning: making games is hard, but publishers and platform-holders could do more to make it less risky. And one of the ways companies are doing that is with a major focus on subscription services.
And that’s where Microsoft is leading the way.
Game Pass and subscriptions are disrupting how we purchase software Xbox Game Pass debuted in 2017, but in 2019, it built up an undeniable momentum. Microsoft made it clear that the $10-per-month subscription service is the core of its business going forward. And on top of adding amazing games to the service like The Outer Worlds, Outer Wilds, and Void Bastards, the company got aggressive with promotional deals. You could get three months for a dollar or turn your current Xbox Live Gold membership into Game Pass Ultimate by paying $1. And now the service is also on PC as well as the Xbox consoles.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The result of those efforts is that Game Pass is growing quickly. And now we’re starting to see something of a network effect. People are getting Game Pass because their friends have it, and $10 per month is the cheapest way to play all those games together. That network effect is even increasing game sales. Because subscribers to the service are playing more games together, when those groups go to buy a non-Game Pass release, those groups are more likely to migrate together.
But even if some people are buying more games, there’s no doubt that subscriptions are in the process of changing everything. And in a few years, buying games is going to seem as weird as purchasing a new music album.
Microsoft is already seeing the benefit of this. The company’s Xbox One system is on the way out as the current console generation ends. But the Xbox division’s revenues aren’t taking a huge dip like is normal. Instead, it’s seeing a pretty steady stream of revenue. That’s due in large part to the increased performance of live-service games like Fortnite, Apex Legends, and Rainbow Six: Siege. But Game Pass is contributing to that as well.
Crossplay and first-party crossplatform support If you look to other ways in which the industry is changing, it all fits with this trend. Crossplay is now the standard going forward. Sony, Microsoft, and Nintendo are feeling less precious about their walled gardens. And the reason, again, is that services are more important. And service games like Fortnite and Minecraft work better if platforms aren’t putting them into silos.
Even Sony, who was the company most adamant about opposing crossplay, is now onboard with the idea. It even recently revealed that it’s going to make MLB: The Show a multiplatform release. That’s likely indicative of the MLB’s wishes, but it’s also a sign of the times. Sony even sees that certain kinds of games don’t make sense as console exclusives. While God of War is almost certainly only coming to PlayStation 5, multiplayer games can’t rely on an audience on just one platform.
So yeah, things are weird. And expect them to get even weirder in 2020.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
