Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Concord Readies for Global Expansion, Appoints Veteran Product Marketing and Brand Leaders Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn SAN FRANCISCO–(BUSINESS WIRE)–January 31, 2019– Concord , the fastest-growing contract management platform company, has expanded its marketing bench-strength with two senior appointments: Kai Ichikawa joins the company as head of product marketing; Orit Peleg joins as head of brand and corporate communications.
The Concord Platform as a Service (PaaS) is transforming how organizations conduct business by eliminating the complexity, friction and barriers to collaboration typically associated with the contract workflow. With over 200,000 companies already on the Concord PaaS and the recent closing of $25 million in Series B funding, these two senior marketing hires will drive the platform growth and brand strategies to deliver on the company’s global expansion plans.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190131005248/en/ Kai Ichikawa, Concord’s new head of product marketing (Photo: Business Wire) Said Concord VP of Marketing Travis Bickham, “More than a business success story, Concord is a customer success story. By bringing teams throughout an organization together within a single, simple digital environment, as well as their vendor and supplier networks, we unleash the power of collaboration and agreement. The combined skills and expertise that Kai and Orit bring to our team will extend the Concord platform value horizontally throughout our customers’ organizations and build awareness of the extraordinary business impact the platform delivers.” A product marketing veteran with extensive experience in building global platforms with features and functionality that deliver fast business impact and customer delight, Kai Ichikawa previously held product management leadership roles at Microsoft, Sysomos and UserTesting. He will be responsible for leading platform development with an emphasis on expanding customer use-cases, as well as closely partnering with customers to help them derive the greatest possible value from their investment in the Concord platform.
Orit Peleg, a truly global brand practitioner with experience across three continents, brings extensive creative, in-house and agency experience and an impressive 15-year track-record in building some of the world’s most recognizable brands, including Audi, SurveyMonkey, Google Cloud and Coca-Cola. She will be responsible for building and evangelizing the Concord brand through all marketing platforms and channels to promote the incredible outcomes organizations experience when they have the best possible collaboration tools.
Unlike other contract management systems, Concord provides a single and completely digital environment for the inception, origination, negotiation, execution and renewal of all contracts, including all parties, all edits and all signatures. The platform creates far-reaching business impact including increased efficiency, productivity, compliance, infinite scale, improved financial visibility and accelerated time-to-revenue from the sales pipeline. Concord customers include Just Eat, Bosch, LSU, Kickstarter and the Department of Transportation.
Visit www.concordnow.com for more information about Concord’s contract management PaaS.
About Concord Founded in 2014 and headquartered in San Francisco, Concord enables over 200,000 companies around the globe to connect all their people, processes and contracts in one place. Built with intuitive features, like online negotiation and editing, deadline alerts and approval workflows, Concord gives users everything they need for the entire contract lifecycle–making growth and compliance synonymous.
Additional Resources Become a fan of Concord: https://www.facebook.com/ConcordNow/ Follow Concord on Twitter: https://twitter.com/ConcordNow View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190131005248/en/ John Snedigar 408-705-7518 john@rainemakers.com VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
