Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Skillz: Top 10 mobile esports players won $8 million in 2018 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Skillz has stats on mobile esports champs for 2018 Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Mobile esports provider Skillz said that the top 10 mobile esports players earned more than $8 million in 2018, with seven of the 10 rankings claimed by women.
The prizes earned by this year’s winners were three times larger than that earned by 2017’s top players , which is a good sign of the growth of esports in the $70 billion mobile game market.
“When I first started competing on the Skillz platform, I never realized this was something I could do professionally,” says Jennifer Park (jpark87), a college engineering student from Westland, Michigan. “The prizes I’ve earned from playing Skillz games have helped put me through college.” Above: Skillz’s top esports gamers of 2018.
As the industry’s revenue has increased, competitive gaming prize pools have also grown. Prizes from esports tournaments such as Dota 2’s The International topped $25 million last year, now exceeding those of prestigious offline sports events such as racing’s Indianapolis 500 and pro golf’s The Masters.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! According to eSportsEarnings.com, global esports prize pools grew 31.5 percent from 2017 to 2018. In comparison, the top 10 Skillz competitors generated over a 300 percent year over year increase in prizes won, with the top player ranking No. 6 on the list of highest-earning 2018 athletes across the global esports industry.
“Top mobile eSports athletes bring the same inspiring dedication you see in world-class NBA or MLB players to our increasingly digital world,” says Andrew Paradise, CEO and founder of Skillz, in a statement. “Similar to how radio and television revolutionized the future of sports, Skillz is using mobile technology to do the same for esports.” Skillz reported it doubled its revenue run-rate twice in 2018 to a current total of over $400 million.
The top Skillz competitors are ranked based upon total tournament prizes won by each player, excluding any entry fees paid to enter those tournaments.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
