Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google is working with Apple to restore internal iOS apps (updated) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google's London HQ at 6 Pancras Square, October 11, 2018.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Following reports that Apple revoked Google’s Enterprise Developer Program certificate yesterday, effectively rendering a number of its internal iOS apps nonfunctional, the Mountain View company says that the problem has been resolved.
The Verge yesterday reported that “early versions of Google Maps, Hangouts, Gmail, and other pre-release beta apps” stopped working this afternoon, in addition to employee-only apps for transportation and Google’s on-campus cafe app. At the time, Google told VentureBeat it was working with Apple on a fix.
Apple seems to have been motivated by Google’s Screenwise Meter, an opt-in behavioral monitoring app uncovered by TechCrunch this week. Much like Facebook’s widely reported Project Atlas , it appeared to skirt the rules of the enterprise program by using it to monitor iPhone owners’ phone usage.
Apple earlier said that “any developer using their enterprise certificates to distribute apps to consumers will have their certificates revoked.” Facebook, like Google, saw its enterprise certificate revoked this week.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The Cupertino company’s move came even after Google disabled Screenwise Meter, which had been operating since 2012. In an earlier statement, Google apologized, and said that the research panel “should not have operated under [the] developer enterprise program.” That conciliatory move wasn’t enough to spare it from Apple’s wrath, apparently.
Updated 2/1 at 6:10 a.m. Pacific: Added details to reflect that Google has regained access to its internal iOS apps.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
