Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages NextVR will offer 3D hockey highlights, starting with NHL All-Star Game Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn NextVR on ice.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Best known for its virtual reality videos of live events, NextVR today announced a partnership with the NHL to deliver 3D highlights from the hockey league’s “marquee events.” According to NextVR, the post-game highlights will include everything from matchups and goals to big hits, using stereoscopic VR footage that lets viewers feel like they’re in the arena.
The deal starts with 3D video filmed at last weekend’s NHL All-Star Game in San Jose, California, which is available now on a new NextVR NHL channel. No additional NHL games are currently on NextVR’s schedule, but that will change shortly, complementing the NBA , boxing, tennis, and WWE wrestling events covered by the company’s services.
“Not every fan can experience our marquee events in-person,” said NHL VP Chris Golier, “but NextVR’s immersive content will bring fans closer to the on-ice action than ever before and make them feel like they are at a live NHL game.” The highlights will be distributed for free globally through NextVR’s app, which itself is available at no charge across every major VR platform — PlayStation VR, Windows Mixed Reality, and multiple Oculus and HTC Vive devices, to name a few. NextVR Now apps are also available to let iOS and Android devices preview VR footage in 2D, with full 3D VR support for Google Daydream headsets.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
