Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AI helps turbine-inspecting drones pinpoint their locations Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Quadcopters that autonomously spot signs of facilities wear are nothing new — French startup Sterblue , Clobotics , General Electric spinoff Avitas Systems , and Cyberhawk employ robots to look after gas terminals, oil rigs, and other assets. A problem that remains somewhat uncracked in the drone inspection space, though, is localization — the ability to accurately suss out a drone’s location with respect to the thing it’s inspecting. GPS and inertial measurement units (IMUs) provide relatively granular tracking, but more accurate data might ensure better consistency and enable drones to get safely closer to inspection targets.
Toward that end, a newly published paper on the preprint server Arxiv.org (“ Improving drone localization around wind turbines using monocular model-based tracking “) proposes a novel method of integrating images into drone navigation stacks for automated wind turbine inspection. “Due to harsh weather conditions, wind turbines can incur a wide range of structural damage, which can severely impact their power generation abilities,” the scientists explain. “Current best practice in visual inspection is the use of ground-based cameras with telephoto lenses, or manual inspection using climbing equipment. [But] both methods incur considerable cost in both the inspection itself, and the turbine downtime.” They have a point — ice can do enormous damage to turbines. Some wind farms report energy production losses of up to 20 percent due to icing, according to Canadian wind-industry consultancy firm TechnoCentre Éolien (TCE), and over time, ice shedding from blades can damage other blades or overstress internal components, necessitating costly repairs.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The researchers’ model-based approach involves mapping a 3D line-and-point skeleton representation of turbines to image data collected from drones’ front-facing monocular cameras. The matching is performed by a convolutional neural network trained on a set of 1,000 labeled photos of turbines from the internet, which translates the image data — along with estimated camera poses obtained from the drone’s GPS and IMU sensors — into a form that can be “easily” correlated to the skeleton model projection.
In tests, the approach “noticeably improve[d]” localization, the paper’s authors write, although they concede that there’s more validation work to be done; they didn’t have access to ground truth pose estimates for inspection flights, and so they weren’t able to quantitatively evaluate the overall system. But they contend that their work lays a foundation for improved systems to come, including versions that incorporate additional sensors such as lidar and simultaneously estimate turbine models’ parameters.
“Results illustrate that the use of the image measurements significantly improves the [precision] of the localization over that obtained using GPS and IMU alone,” they wrote.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
