Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Ding, dong, the Dash is dead Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Amazon Tide Dash Button Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
It’s been said before that for all their intelligence — enabling you to play music, control smart home devices, and receive alerts when someone breaks into your home — Amazon’s Echo is essentially a Dash button with speakers.
Well, I guess Echo is just an intelligent speaker now, as Amazon announced today that it will indefinitely discontinue Dash buttons sales globally.
Dash buttons were first made available in 2015 as a way to help people reorder important items they often use in their homes — things like paper towels, laundry detergent, and energy bars. Dash buttons that cost $5 were made available from more than 150 brands, including Tide, Clif Bar, and Campbell Soup.
Since then, devices and services from Amazon have increasingly made the Dash button obsolete. These include the Echo Wand , which can scan the barcodes of devices you want to reorder, and Alexa, which can either help users do shopping research or remember the kind of toilet paper or trash bags or snacks you like.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Last year, virtual Dash buttons were introduced that let third parties make their own Dash buttons for devices with screens.
Dash Replenishment , a service that makes smart home devices like Brita water filters and Whirlpool washing machines automatically order new supplies, was introduced at the same time as the Dash button and now supports reorders for hundreds of products, a company spokesperson said in a statement shared with VentureBeat.
Existing Dash buttons will continue to work for the die-hard Dash fans out there. For people who like the simplicity of pressing a button to complete reorders, virtual dash buttons will also continue to work on devices like Amazon’s Echo Show.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
