Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Bitbucket makes continuous delivery feature Pipes broadly available Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
DevOps can be a bear sometimes. A decent portion of the work involves setting up continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD) pipelines, which help automate app building, testing, and deployment — essentially acting as bridges between operations and development teams. That might sound simple enough, but connecting tools and writing integrations for countless services is an error-prone, research-intensive process that involves lots of debugging and maintenance.
The folks at Atlassian’s Bitbucket Cloud today put forth their solution to this problem: Bitbucket Pipes. It’s a cloud-based tool that streamlines the process of automating CI/CD workflows in a “plug-and-play” fashion, and one that integrates with popular environments like Google Cloud, Microsoft, Slack, Amazon Web Services, and more.
Pipes’ launch comes two years after Bitbucket took the wraps off Pipelines , a continuous delivery feature that lets developers build, test, and deploy code without leaving Bitbucket. And it follows the debut of Deployments , a component within Bitbucket that automatically tracks changes, records the date those changes were made, and reveals how far the changes were pushed into a production environment.
“Whether you’re creating a simple deploy pipeline to a hosting service like AWS, utilizing a multi-cloud deployment strategy, or automating a sophisticated pipeline that involves security scanning, monitoring, and artifact management, Bitbucket Pipes makes it easy to build and automate a CI/CD pipeline that meets your exact needs,” said Atlassian head of product Harpreet Singh.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Here’s how it works: After you’ve pulled up a new or existing repository, you’ll see the pipelines view in Bitbucket’s online .yml editor. From that point, adding them to a given codebase is as simple as choosing a pipeline (or pipelines), entering the variables required by the pipelines to run, and copying and pasting the code. Perhaps best of all, there’s no need to update or reconfigure pipelines over time — they’re maintained by the author.
At launch, you’ll find pipelines for Opsgenie, Sonatype, Snyk, Rollout, Sonarsource, Rollbar, LaunchDarkly, Pagerduty, JFrog, Bugsnag, Datadog, WhiteSource, NPM, and others. They’re live for all three pricing tiers — Free, Standard, and Premium — with more preconfigured pipelines on the way, Singh said.
As of 2018, Bitbucket had over 6 million developers and 1 million teams on its platform.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
