Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cloud Elements raises $25 million to expand its API integration platform Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
If you’re building an app that integrates with a number of popular services, wouldn’t you rather write one API than a few dozen? Cloud Elements , a Denver-based startup that is solving this problem, today announced it has raised $25 million in series C funding to expand its API integration platform.
The round was led by Mercato Partners, with participation from existing investors Access Ventures, American Express Ventures, Grotech Ventures, Harbert Growth Partners, Rally Ventures, and Upslope Ventures. The seven-year-old startup has raised $46.2 million, to date.
Cloud Elements’ platform provides developers and businesses with prebuilt integration of over 170 popular services, spanning fintech, ecommerce, storage, and other industries. The company also offers a product called Element Builder to let third parties add more capabilities to its prebuilt integrations.
In addition, Cloud Elements helps its users and customers with a range of needs — authentication, discovery, search, workflows, error handling, and maintenance. The comprehensive offering “eliminates the need for software teams to build their own integration stack, while enabling them to deliver more unified and expansive experiences to their customers,” the company said.
Cloud Elements cofounder and CEO Mark Geene said a developer could write code for each integration, but the process is clumsy, costly, and time-intensive. “APIs are a great way to make software work together, but developers now have to deal with hundreds or thousands of APIs to automate basic business processes. Point-to-point integration can’t scale to address this challenge,” he told VentureBeat in an email.
A spokesperson told VentureBeat that the company has amassed over 150 customers, including such big names as SAP, IBM, American Express, Western Union, and Xerox, as well as over 10,000 users.
APIs have become a big business, enabling companies of all sizes to quickly add more capabilities to their platforms and explore additional revenue channels. For instance, Google offers Maps for free to users, but it also maintains pay-as-you-go APIs to let companies like Uber and India’s Ola leverage its maps and navigation service.
Cloud Elements is optimistic that the proliferation of the “ API economy” will only help it grow its business in the future. The company plans to use the fresh capital to build new features for its platform and expand its sales and marketing operations in the U.S. and Europe.
A growing number of companies exist only to work around APIs. Twilio, which enables third parties to integrate calls and SMS functionality into their own apps, raised more than $250 million before going public on the NYSE in 2016.
 The same year, Google acquired API management platform Apigee for $625 million. MuleSoft, which went public on the NYSE in 2015 , offers ProgrammableWeb, a popular API directory that mostly serves as a database. And RapidAPI, an online marketplace where developers can discover application programming interfaces (APIs), raised $9 million in a series A round of funding led by Andreessen Horowitz last year.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
