Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Talespin’s virtual human platform uses VR and AI to teach employees soft skills Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Talespin's 'virtual human,' Barry.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Training employees how to perform specific tasks isn’t difficult, but building their soft skills — their interactions with management, fellow employees, and customers — can be more challenging, particularly if there aren’t people around to practice with. Virtual reality training company Talespin announced today that it is leveraging AI to tackle that challenge, using a new “virtual human platform” to create realistic simulations for employee training purposes.
Unlike traditional employee training, which might consist of passively watching a video or lightly interacting with collections of canned multiple choice questions, Talespin’s system has a trainee interact with a virtual human powered by AI, speech recognition, and natural language processing. Because the interactions use VR headsets and controllers, the hardware can track a trainee’s gaze, body movement, and facial expressions during the session.
Talespin’s virtual character is able to converse realistically, guiding trainees through branching narratives using natural mannerisms and believable speech. Visualized as an emotive person rather than a list of steps to memorize, the AI’s adaptive interactive training can teach interpersonal skills including proper communication, conflict resolution, and negotiation.
In a basic training scenario, the virtual human might do something as simple as demonstrating the correct way to act in a situation — effectively, “follow what I’m doing.” To that end, Talespin previously created a VR simulation for Farmers Insurance where a trainee learns to act like a claims adjuster inspecting water damage.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! But AI enables the simulation to go broader and deeper. A demo of the new platform places the trainee in the role of an HR employee who must terminate a fellow employee — a challenge for almost any untrained person. Rather than just working through a rote set of procedures, Talespin presents an interactive virtual human, complete with the heavy emotions and stress normally found in that situation. In addition to following a branched narrative, the scenario teaches users how to avoid common wrongful termination issues.
Businesses interested in training using the virtual human platform can find more information at Talespin’s site.
 The company’s immersive and extended reality solutions are custom-built for enterprise customers, with prices determined on a per-project basis.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
