Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Little Friends: Dogs & Cats can scratch your Nintendogs itch on Switch Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Nintendo has not made a Nintendogs game for Switch , but a third-party developer is releasing something that could be good enough. Sold Out Games is bringing Little Friends: Dogs & Cat to Switch later this spring in North America and Europe as a digital and physical release. It came out in Japan last year.
This game has players take care of digital pets, which includes six breeds of puppies and three kinds of kittens. You can use the Switch’s touch screen to pet them. You can also take your furry friends for walks and play games like fetch with them. You can also dress them up in different outfits.
This is pretty similar to how Nintendo’s Nintendogs games work. The original — which released in three versions in 2015 with different dogs available in each — sold a combined 23.96 million on the Nintendo DS. A sequel, Nintendogs + Cats, released for the Nintendo 3DS in 2011.
But that’s the last time we’ve seen the franchise. Nintendo has not released or announced a Nintendogs game for Switch. Now, another company has a chance to capitalize on that digital pet-hungry market.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Sold Out Games is a London-based publisher that has worked with notable studios like Frontier Developments on Jurassic World: Evolution. It has also worked on indie games like Yoku’s Island Express and Overcooked 2.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
