Cohere Website For Business Docs Research Lewis Stott Introducing Cohere's Accelerator Program For Business Share: At Cohere, we aim to offer the best level of support in our industry across every tier of our users — from developers, to startups, to our enterprise-level deployments. As a startup ourselves, we know first-hand how challenging it can be for a small team with limited resources to get MVPs to market quickly and drive growth. So, this month, we launched the Cohere Accelerator Program , which provides enhanced assistance to ambitious startups looking to put language AI at the heart of what they do.
Giving technology language is core to our mission, so we ensure that even those without machine learning expertise can easily enhance their mobile app, backend service, or platform by adding language AI features using an intuitive API. Through our partnership with Google, Cohere leverages Google Cloud’s TPUs to give customers access to massive supercomputing power at a fraction of the cost. This can be a game-changer for startups who don’t have the resources to build, train, and maintain LLMs on their own. Cohere makes it easy for teams to quickly build products that include language AI features, such as copywriting, search, conversational AI, summarization, or content moderation, to name a few.
If you want to enhance your team’s productivity or create better customer experiences with large language models, our program can help fast-track your growth, development, and success.
What is the Cohere Accelerator Program? Cohere’s rapidly expanding customer base includes a broad range of users and businesses, from individual developers to some of our largest enterprise customers, such as Spotify and Jasper. The business world’s appetite and excitement for language AI has truly never been greater, yet we frequently see smaller businesses and startups grappling with how best to approach and adopt natural language processing (NLP) within their organizations. Recognizing this need, we designed the Cohere Accelerator Program to give these teams a head start.
One of the most common feedback themes we receive from enterprise customers is that our in-house experts help them to move further, faster. We’ve seen this experience benefit some of our startup customers as well. Once such customer that recently closed their Series B highlights how the Cohere team has supported their growth: With a focus on 1:1 support, collaboration, and beta access to our latest offerings, the Accelerator Program will help startups rapidly drive production-ready deployments. Accelerator customers will receive ongoing, in-depth advice from the experts at Cohere, discounted usage, and the opportunity to participate in exclusive beta access programs.
Why Join the Accelerator Program? The Accelerator Program offers startups the same level of support and collaboration as our enterprise clients. By leveraging Cohere's expertise and resources, including discounted usage, you can expedite development and concentrate on your core product, enabling a quicker market launch.
Meet our Program Participants For the first run of the Cohere Accelerator Program, we focused on working with startups close to our network who had use cases that would both push Cohere solutions further and deliver maximum value. The current participants are truly global, spanning Helsinki to Mexico City to right here in Toronto. Here's what a couple of them have to say: Flowrite — Helsinki, Finland 🇫🇮 Pioneering a better way to write on the web Eficiencia Informativa — Mexico City, Mexico 🇲🇽 Deep media analysis for improved decision intelligence Who Should Apply? We’re looking to partner with companies that have exciting language AI use cases, and are looking to adopt these technologies within the core of their business. You’ll be a great fit if: You’ll aim to make the most of the access to our team, and push to adopt our technology quickly within your products.
You’ll be willing to offer us detailed feedback on our products and on your experience with the program. We pride ourselves on offering an incredible user experience and we want to make sure that we understand the areas in which we can improve.
You’re willing to experiment with Beta products in order to get to market first with the latest technologies.
The program, whilst discounted, is chargeable and so may not suit very early-stage startups.
Interested? Get Started! Complete this short survey to register your interest , or email accelerator@cohere.com for more information.
Keep reading Cohere — Nov 16, 2023 Cohere’s Enterprise AI Models Coming Soon to Microsoft Azure AI as a Managed Service Newsroom Seraphina Goldfarb-Tarrant , Maximilian Mozes — Nov 14, 2023 The Enterprise Guide to AI Safety For Business Cohere Team — Nov 03, 2023 Emerging Trends in Generative AI Research: A Selection of Recent Papers Research Cohere.com Get Started About Classify Generate Responsibility Documentation Careers
