Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Razer launches first Xbox One wireless keyboard and mouse Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Razer Turret Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Razer is launching the Razer Turret , a wireless keyboard and mouse for the Xbox One video game console.
That means that console gamers won’t necessarily be at a disadvantage in the world of cross play, where PC gamers with mice and keyboards square off against console gamers in shooter games such as Fortnite.
“We’re extremely proud to team up with Microsoft to bring you this exclusive collaboration,” said Razer CEO Min-Liang Tan, in a statement. “With the Razer Turret for Xbox One, it is now possible to bring the full experience of a keyboard and mouse, with lighting and game integration to Xbox One.” The Razer Turret is built for gaming on the couch, with a 2.4-gigahertz connection via a single dongle for the mouse and keyboard, and battery life of up to 40 hours on a single charge.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! It has Xbox Dynamic Lighting and Razer Chroma lighting technology, so console gamers can now have access to the Razer ecosystem of lighting with up to 16.8 million color options and lighting effects for the mouse and keyboard.
Razer has worked with developers to bring Xbox Dynamic Lighting and Razer Chroma support in-game, with titles such as X-Morph Defense, Vermintide 2, and others.
“Razer Chroma expands even further into the living room, building upon the success we’ve had with Philips Hue in room lighting, ” Tan said.
Above: Razer Turret The keyboard has Razer’s gaming-grade mechnical switches, with a lifespan of up to 80 million keystrokes. A dedicated Xbox key pulls up the Xbox One dashboard.
The mouse is based on Razer’s Mamba Wireless gaming mouse and has a 5G advanced optical sensor and Razer mechanical mouse switches with 50-million click durability.
The mouse surface is hidden underneath the main body of the keyboard and can be extended for use, then retracted for storage or charging. It has a built-in ergonomic wrist rest that extends from the base of the Razer Turret keyboard.
The Razer Turret for Xbox One is fully compatible with Windows 10 PCs. It will sell for $250 and it is available soon.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
