Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple ends Texture on May 28 without News+ apps for Android or Fire HD Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Slightly more than a year after acquiring the digital magazine subscription service Texture , Apple is unsurprisingly shutting it down in favor of its recently announced replacement, Apple News+ — but it’s leaving former Android and Amazon Fire HD subscribers without service.
Texture’s final day will be May 28, 2019, after which subscribers are encouraged to transition to the News+ service. Apple News+ promises access to 300 magazines and newspapers, up from Texture’s 200 magazines, plus full reading rights for multiple relatives using Apple’s iCloud Family Sharing feature. A free one-month trial is offered to all News+ users, with no special privileges for former Texture subscribers.
But the newer service is compatible solely with iOS and macOS devices running the free Apple News app. By comparison, Texture’s app is available for iOS, Android, and Amazon Fire HD tablet users. Apple hasn’t said anything about plans to bring News+ to competing devices, even though it devoted a portion of its Show Time media event on Monday to extending its iTunes and Apple TV offerings to competitors’ TVs and video streaming devices — notably omitting Google’s Android platform.
Apart from potentially needing to switch devices to continue using the all-you-can-read magazine service, there’s no additional charge to move from Texture to Apple News+. Both services carry $9.99 monthly fees for unlimited iOS and macOS use, which began on Monday.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
