Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Borderlands 3 trailers reveal more-derlands Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Developer Gearbox finally revealed Borderlands 3 today. During a panel presentation at PAX East in Boston that involved stage magic and technical difficulties, the studio showed a 4K trailer for sequel to its breakout looter shooter.
Gearbox did not provide a release date, but it did promise that it would share more on April 3.
The trailer, however, did give a good look at what players should expect. It once again features a new cast of playable heroes for its four-player cooperative action. But this still looks like a Borderlands game.
The studio is sticking with the series’ cel-shaded visual style. It is also promising over 1 billion procedurally generated guns.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! More-derlands — get it? But it’s not necessarily a bad thing that Boderlands 3 is more Borderlands. The shoot-and-loot genre is now dominated by huge, ongoing live service games. Destiny 2, The Division 2, and Anthem are all ongoing and want players to return regularly.
Borderlands originally debuted before that business model, and it’s possible that Borderlands 3 may try to stick to that. For players looking to get into and out of a game with a definitive ending, Borderlands 3 could deliver an oasis from our live-services future.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
