Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Oculus opens Quest and Rift S preorders, start shipping on May 21 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Oculus Quest (left) and the Oculus Rift launch May 21, 2019.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The Oculus Quest and the Rift S launch May 21, and you can preorder these virtual reality headsets now for $400.
The Quest represents a significant shift in virtual reality. It’s a standalone headset — the only wire you’ll deal with is the charging cable, which plugs into the headset. Setup includes the Guardian system, which helps you set up the space in which you’ll use the Quest (and it looks and feels like a holodeck, too, and it’s honest-to-goodness fun to use as you draw an area inside the app while wearing the headset).
Quest comes with two Touch controllers as well.
The Quest will also come with demos of five games: Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Beat Saber Creed Journey of the Gods Space Pirate Trainer Sports Scramble Heading into the Rift The Rift S is an incremental upgrade of the original Rift headset for PCs ( you can see the breakdown here ). It features a number of improvements over the older device: Better optics higher resolution display Oculus Insight — the sensors are now on the device, dispensing with external gear. You can even see what things look like outside the headset (Quest has this as well).
Stereo sound Two Touch controllers You can preorder the devices on Amazon, Best Buy, and the Microsoft Store in the U.S. Or you can buy them from Facebook at Oculus.com.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
