Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Blockchain Credit Partners (BCP) Launches World’s First Tokenized High-Yield Private Credit Fund Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The BCP High-Yield Fund is backed by US Assets, Provides Quarterly Payments, and is endorsed by The Institute for Blockchain Innovation (IBI) and Blockchain, Fintech & Financial Services Leaders PALM BEACH, Fla.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–May 30, 2019– Blockchain Credit Partners (BCP), www.BlockchainCreditPartners.com , announced today the launch of the world’s first Tokenized High-Yield Private Credit Fund with a focus on providing consistent high-yield cash flow payments through lending against secured assets. The fund has chosen to use the Securitize platform and protocol for the issuance and lifecycle management of the fund. The Securitize DS Protocol will allow for future compliant trading of the fund on an authorized Alternative Trading System.
The BCP High-Yield Fund is the first time a high-yield private credit fund has been tokenized using the blockchain. The primary focus of the fund is on two segments of secured lending: Autos, and Real Estate. Loans will be in a senior secured position with attractive Loan-To-Value (LTV) ratios. The fund looks to provide consistent high-yield quarterly payments that are secured by hard assets on an over collateralized basis.
The BCP High-Yield Fund leverages the Managing Partners’ Gregory Keough and Derek Acree substantial experience in the traditional and online secured lending space. They have also served as C- Level executives at Global Fortune 500 enterprises.
The BCP Fund advisors and partners include a who’s who in the digital securities, blockchain, and traditional investments arenas and include: The Institute for Blockchain Innovation (IBI) , a global think tank composed of global pioneers in the Digital Securities (Security Token) and Blockchain Payments space who are building the future of financial systems on the blockchain Associate Professor of Finance at University of Oregon, Visiting Fellow, Cambridge Centre for Alternative Finance, Partner at Collaborative Fund, Steve McKeon.
President, Securitize, Jamie Finn : Serial entrepreneur and Co-Founder of Securitize one of the leading digital security platforms for tokenized securities.
With additional advisors to be announced shortly.
Investing in High-Yield Private Credit has previously been reserved almost exclusively for ultra-high net worth private banking clients or hedge fund investors. The BCP Fund tokenization opens this investment opportunity up to global investors who are seeking secured high-yield cash flows.
Carlos Domingo , CEO & Co-founder Securitize, stated “We fully support the innovation of new financial products that re-imagine the traditional fund industry. Especially products that were previously only accessible to hedge funds or ultra-high net worth clients. Tokenized products running on our DS Protocol will allow funds to trade on regulated marketplaces and provide investors with additional benefits beyond the 7 year lock up model found currently in most private credit funds.” About Blockchain Credit Partners (BCP): Blockchain Credit Partners (BCP) is pioneering the re-imagination of the fund industry using blockchain technology. Investing in High-Yield Private Credit has previously been reserved almost exclusively for ultra-high net worth private banking clients or hedge fund investors. BCP is making this asset class accessible for a broader group of investors while leveraging the blockchain and tokenization.
For more information: www.BlockchainCreditPartners.com About Securitize: Securitize delivers trusted global solutions for creating compliant digital securities. The Securitize compliance platform and protocol provide a proven, full-stack solution for issuing and managing digital securities (security tokens). Securitize’s innovative DS Protocol has the highest adoption rate in the industry and enables seamless, fully compliant trading across multiple markets simultaneously. Multiple Securitize powered digital securities are already trading globally on public marketplaces with many more in the pipeline.
For more information contact: info@securitize.io Disclaimer This press release should not be construed as an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction where such an offer or solicitation would be illegal. We are not soliciting any action based on this material. It is for the general information of our clients. It does not constitute a recommendation or take into account the particular investment objectives, financial conditions, or needs of individual clients. Before acting on this material, you should consider whether it is suitable for your particular circumstances and, if necessary, seek professional advice. The price and value of the investments referred to in this material and the income from them may go down as well as up, and investors may realize losses on any investments. Past performance is not a guide to future performance. Future returns are not guaranteed, and a loss of original capital may occur. We do not provide tax, accounting, or legal advice to our clients, and all investors are advised to consult with their tax, accounting, or legal advisers regarding any potential investment.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190530005672/en/ Blockchain Credit Partners Kira Mendez 561-408-7968 kira.mendez@blockchaincreditpartners.com VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
