Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nintendo adds ex-Gearbox, Disney Infinity EP John Vignocchi to its developer and publisher relations team Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn John Vignocchi at Nintendo.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
A few days after announcing that he’s leaving Gearbox , John Vignocchi has reveled that he is joining Nintendo of America.
Vignocchi was the executive producer of Disney Infinity , the toys-to-life franchise that launched in 2013 and was then unceremoniously dumped by Disney in 2016. Vignocchi joined Gearbox in October 2018 to work on a new franchise, but he has left that post after just seven months for this opportunity to work at Nintendo.
“I’ll be driving developer and publisher relations for North America so that Nintendo can continue to bring amazing content to all fans,” Vignocchi wrote on a Facebook post. “I plan to help continue the tradition of building memories through Nintendo that will last a lifetime. I certainly have a lifetime of them already and can’t wait to make more. I’m humbled by this dream opportunity and will work tirelessly to bring you the best that I can.” Nintendo is doing well these days thanks to the success of the Switch , the handheld/home console hybrid that launched in March 2017. The Switch has sold over 34.7 million systems.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! At Nintendo of America, Vignocchi will be working under Doug Bowser , who replaced the recently retired Reggie Fils-Aimé.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
