Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages NASA selects first commercial partners for 2024 Artemis moon landing Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
NASA today announced it has selected the first commercial space companies to participate in its payload delivery service as part of the agency’s plan to return humans to the surface of the moon by 2024 and create a permanent moon base by 2028.
Astrobotic is being paid $79.5 million to carry more than a dozen payloads to the near side of the moon by 2021; Intuitive Machines was awarded a $77 million contract for five payload trips; and Orbit Beyond was awarded a $97 million contract to carry as many as four payloads to a lava plain by 2020.
Initial trips will be dedicated to the delivery of scientific investigation and discovery, and the payloads will likely be related to that purpose. Payloads carried by each company will be determined this summer, according to a NASA statement.
The news caps what’s been a momentous month for NASA and commercial space companies.
NASA introduced the Artemis program on May 16.
 Named for the twin sister of Apollo, Artemis will include lunar landing studies with companies like SpaceX, Blue Origin, Lockheed Martin, and SSL.
Initial space station conceptual plans from companies like Blue Origin, Lockheed Martin, and Northrop Grumman were introduced earlier this week, and last week, NASA selected Maxar as the first commercial partner for a lunar space station in the moon’s orbit.
Blue Origin, owned by Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, introduced its first lunar module and a new rocket earlier this month as part of its pitch to be included in Artemis. More could be revealed next week at re:Mars, a space, AI, and robotics conference Amazon is hosting in Las Vegas.
In other recent initiatives, an Israeli private space company failed to land a rover on the moon in April; in January, China’s space agency became the first to land on the dark side of the moon; and in May, India announced plans to become the fourth nation to land a module on the moon this fall.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
