Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Anne Frank House VR is now on Oculus Quest for free Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A bookcase opens into the secret annex of Anne Frank's house in Amsterdam.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Just over a year ago now Oculus and Force Field VR released a VR experience based around Anne Frank.
 The piece was released on Frank’s 89th birthday on Oculus Rift, Go, and Gear VR. And just after Frank’s 90th birthday passes, the app also arrives on Oculus Quest.
Anne Frank House VR is now available on Facebook’s standalone VR headset.
 The piece, produced in partnership with the Anne Frank House charity, allows people to explore the house in which the Holocaust victim hid from Nazi occupation in Amsterdam from 1942 to 1944. Anne Frank House VR is available to download for free.
You’ll be able to tour every room of the “Secret Annex” in which Frank and seven other Jewish people hid. Quest’s six degree of freedom (6DOF) tracking allows you to walk around and interact with environments like they would on Rift with the freedom of a headset like Go. Each room of the building has been painstakingly recreated in virtual form to provide an authentic experience. Notes, pictures and other items are scattered about the environment to give you a deeper understanding of what life was like.
Overall it’s a powerful example of how VR can transport us around the world and bring us closer to experiences we might otherwise never have. It lasts around 25 minutes.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The piece is currently up for the VR Social Impact Award at this year’s VR Awards.
For Quest, it’s one of the first educational apps we’ve seen for the device. So far the headset has been treated mainly as a gaming console, an approach that’s drawn criticism from the wider VR community.
This story originally appeared on Uploadvr.com.
 Copyright 2019 GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
