Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Exclusive Cognition IP raises $2.8 million for AI to help patent startups’ inventions Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Cognition IP today announced the close of a $2.8 million funding round for its legal services AI. Trained with text from patent filings, its tools are made to augment human lawyers and help startups obtain patents and search existing intellectual property claims.
Cognition IP delivers intellectual property law services at a fixed rate, instead of adopting the hourly approach common among other legal professionals. An hourly pricing model has incentivized traditional law firms to avoid efficiency, CEO Bryant Lee told VentureBeat in a phone interview.
“Law firms just aren’t providing the level of service they could be by using technology. That’s a general problem that we’re trying to solve, trying to bring more technology into the legal world,” Lee said.
Cognition IP was founded in 2018 by Lee, a patent lawyer, and Rutgers University computer science assistant professor Andrew Tjang, who serves as company CTO.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The funding will be used to power additional AI-enabled resources and ways to search existing patent filings.
“One problem we’re working on is creating a template using AI — training the AI on existing sets of patents and what they look like to get all the background information and structure and then creating a template for that so that the lawyer can put in specific information about the invention,” Lee explained.
Cognition IP is the latest legal business to target AI that reshapes how legal professionals do their jobs.
While companies like LexisNexis have tested automated bots to assist legal professionals , startups like Trellis are making AI using the text of legal decisions to predict payout of class action lawsuits and how judges will rule in a case. Earlier this year, Disco raised $83 million for AI to assist lawyers in the discovery process.
Cognition IP has offices in San Francisco and Washington D.C. and currently has 12 employees.
The $2.8 million seed round was led by Khosla Ventures, with participation from Mayfield Fund and Basis Set Ventures. Cognition IP took part in the Winter 2018 batch at Y Combinator.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
