Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft releases new Windows 10 preview with Japanese IME and Snip & Sketch improvements Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Microsoft today released a new Windows 10 preview with Japanese IME and Snip & Sketch improvements. The update bumps Windows 10 from build 18945 (made available to testers on July 26) to build 18950. These builds are from the 20H1 branch, which represents the Windows 10 update that will arrive in the first half of next year.
Windows 10 is being developed as a service , meaning it receives new features on a regular basis. Microsoft has released seven major updates so far: November Update , Anniversary Update , Creators Update , Fall Creators Update , April 2018 Update , October 2018 Update , and May 2019 Update.
Microsoft is still iterating on the Japanese IME reintroduced in build 18875.
 Today’s release fixes an issue where the focus inside prediction candidate window wouldn’t move when using the Up Arrow key. It also improves the discoverability of key assignment settings. The default assigned value of Ctrl + Space has been set to None.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Snip & Sketch has received three improvements, but each is being tested with select Insiders in the Fast ring. There’s a new Single window mode for those that retake screenshots, a zoom option (CTRL+Plus, CTRL+Minus, and Ctrl+Mouse wheel are supported), and WIN+Shift+S is now more discoverable with a quick tutorial.
Bug fixes This 20H1 build includes the following bug fixes and improvements: Insiders may notice some references to “Cloud download” relating to PC reset or refresh. This feature isn’t available and working quite yet.
Fixed an issue where ctfmon.exe might crash if clicking the input mode indicator in the taskbar to switch the Japanese IME between modes.
Fixed an issue where pasting from clipboard history (WIN+V) wouldn’t work when using the Bopomofo IME.
Fixed an issue resulting in hanja conversion not working for the updated Korean IME when typing in certain apps.
Fixed an issue that could result in the OneNote app intermittently acting as if the Ctrl key was pressed when it wasn’t.
Known issues This build has four known issues: There has been an issue with older versions of anti-cheat software used with games where after updating to the latest 19H1 Insider Preview builds may cause PCs to experience crashes. Make sure you are running the latest version of your games before attempting to update the operating system.
Some Realtek SD card readers are not functioning properly.
Tamper Protection may be turned off in Windows Security after updating to this build. You can turn it back on. In August, Tamper Protection will return to being on by default for all Insiders.
On occasion, the candidate selection in prediction candidate window for the Japanese IME doesn’t match with the composition string As always, don’t install this on your production machine.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
