Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Ubisoft acquires 70% stake in Green Panda Games, bolstering its hyper-casual stable Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Green Panda Games' stable is all about hyper-casual mobile titles.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Ubisoft Entertainment has a strong presence in PC, console , and mobile games — but it doesn’t have a lot of representation in a growing segment inside the smartphone market, hyper-casual games , outside of Ketchapp, which it acquired in 2016.
Today, the French publisher flexed its hyper-casual muscle by acquiring a 70% stake in Green Panda Games , which makes games like Bee Factory and Golf Orbit and has over 78 million downloads, estimates mobile intelligence firm Sensor Tower.
 This is Ubisoft’s second deal with a hyper-casual studio. The only terms that Ubisoft released is that it has the option to acquire the other 30% of the studio.
Market research firm Newzoo reported in June that it estimates that mobile gaming will hit $68.5 billion this year , and hyper-casual is a thriving segment inside that market. Eighty percent of that comes from smartphone games — where hyper-casual is at its strongest.
Green Panda’s most downloaded game is Bee Factory, Senor Tower reports, with an estimated 15 million downloads. Golf Orbit is its highest grossing game with over $710,000 of in-app purchases. Sensor Tower notes this doesn’t count in-app advertising, which it says likely generates much more revenue than IAPs.
But the stat that stands out the most is that Green Panda’s downloads are up 664% year-over-year this month, Sensor Tower estimates.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! And don’t be surprised if Green Panda’s games get more downloads after this deal. Ubisoft has considerable resources for user acquisition.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
