Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages EA: Apex Legends has 8-to-10 million players a week Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Apex Legends.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Apex Legends may not have the 50 million monthly players that it launched with back in March, but it still has a huge audience. During a conference call with investors, publisher Electronic Arts confirmed that the battle royale shooter has 8 million-to-10 million weekly players.
It’s difficult to compare that to other games like Fortnite and PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds , because that data is not publicly available. Regardless, Apex has a huge number of recurring fans showing up across PC, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One. It also gives EA and developer Respawn Entertainment a lot of potential to generate revenue from the free-to-play game. And the publisher made it clear that it intends to do exactly that.
Respawn just launched Season 2 for Apex Legends in early July. It features improved progression to encourage more players to spend money. Now, EA is already talking about what’s next. EA chief executive officer Andrew Wilson confirmed Respawn is working on Season 3. And it’s “even bigger” than Season 2.
Ten years of Apex Legends Don’t expect Apex to come to an end any time soon, either.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! EA chief financial and operating officer Blake Jorgensen told an analyst that Apex Legends will continue operations for the next 10 years — maybe even longer. That’s not out of the ordinary for publishers like EA. It has had Star Wars: The Old Republic running for seven years already, for example.
But the publisher is also indicating that it has a lot of faith in both Respawn and the Apex Legends brand. It noted that it has other teams standing by to help Respawn build more content for the game as needed.
“We have a large team in DICE Los Angeles that can help with Apex if Respawn wants that,” said Jorgensen.
Apex is clearly EA’s new ace, so fans can likely expect a long-term relationship from the game if they want one.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
