Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Electronic Arts’ core franchises delivered while Apex Legends reloaded Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Good boy.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Electronic Arts had a strong first quarter of its fiscal 2020. The publisher generated $743 million in revenue, which beat Wall Street’s expectations.
 That’s down less than 1% from $749 million during the same period last year.
EA’s share price is up around 3.5 percent in after-hours trading on that news.
EA’s positive results were due largely to the solid performance of its most familiar brands. The company noted that FIFA Ultimate Team had an in-game event that attracted 3 million daily active players.
Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes has nearly reached 80 million lifetime registrations. And The Sims 4 , meanwhile, saw a year-over-year increase of 55% for its expansion and game pack sales. This is all good news for EA, which is trying to generate regular, ongoing revenue from fewer new releases.
“We had a strong start to fiscal-year 2020, bringing rich new experiences to our growing communities for Apex Legends, EA Sports, The Sims, and more,” Electronic Arts chief executive officer Andrew Wilson said. “From great new games to live services with longevity, subscriptions on more platforms, and competitive gaming for more franchises, we’re pushing to lead with innovation, quality and choice for our players.” What about Apex Legends? While Wilson mentioned Apex Legends, the company’s quarterly report barely mentioned it. It did note that Respawn Entertainment launched its Season 2 on July 2. That will show up on the next financial disclosure.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! But this is likely good news for EA. If Season 2 is better at getting players to spend time and money on Apex Legends, the company could see some major growth during Q2. That is especially true if all of EA’s other games and services continue to chug along the way they did in Q1.
“We delivered operating results significantly above our expectations, driven by broad strength across our core franchises,” EA chief financial and operating officer Blake Jorgensen said. “This quarter shows how the power of our portfolio strategy, combined with live services, delivers strong results.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
