Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft’s Icecaps toolkit makes multiple-persona conversational AI with multitask learning Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Microsoft Artificial Intelligence and Research Group executive VP Harry Shum prepares to speak onstage at Build, a Microsoft developer conference held in Seattle in May 2017.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Icecaps , an open source toolkit for neural conversational networks from Microsoft Research, made its debut today. Icecaps is an acronym that stands for Intelligent Conversation Engine: Code and Pre-trained Systems, and it uses multitask learning to do things like give conversational AI systems multiple, different personas.
A combination of personality embeddings and word embeddings is key to Icecaps’ ability to personalize personas. Using such an approach, AI assistants could speak in different ways based on the person they’re talking to or to match specific scenarios.
“Several of these tools were driven by recent work done here at Microsoft Research, including personalization embeddings, maximum mutual information-based decoding, knowledge grounding, and an approach for enforcing more structure on shared feature representations to encourage more diverse and relevant responses,” Microsoft researchers Vighnesh Leonardo Shiv said today in a blog post.
Pre-trained models for developers to build upon or use immediately will be released in the coming months, starting with stochastic answer networks and personalized transformers.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “We had hoped to include these systems with Icecaps at launch. However, given that these systems may produce toxic responses in some contexts, we have decided to explore improved content-filtering techniques before releasing these models to the public,” the Icecaps GitHub page reads.
The Icecaps library uses the TensorFlow machine learning framework and SpaceFusion , a way to inject regularization into multitask learning environments and improve efficiency.
A cohort of a dozen members of Microsoft Research published a paper today on ACL with more details about the making of Icecaps.
In May, Microsoft also used multitask learning to create MT-DNN , an NLP model derived from Google’s BERT currently ranked third on the GLUE language understanding benchmark leaderboard behind Facebook’s RoBERTa and Google’s XLNet.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
