Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages GTA Online and NBA 2K are turning into social casino games Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn GTA Online is a social casino now.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
I usually ignore the social casino game genre , but that may prove more difficult soon. Social casino games have players gambling fake currency on glitzy digital slot machines and other games of chance. They are especially popular on mobile where top games like Slotomania generate millions of dollars a day. But since I spend most of my gaming time on Steam, Epic Games, and Switch, I’ve found it easy to overlook Bingo Blitz, Jackpot Party, and the rest. It’s more difficult to avoid the social casino games called GTA Online and NBA 2K.
Traditional game publishers have clearly begun to take notice of the social casino space. These games are very lucrative.
Slotomania is the No. 5 top-grossing app on the Google Play store.
 So if hardcore players aren’t going to social casino apps on mobile and Facebook, then developers are going to bring them us.
This is already happening. Rockstar launched Red Dead Online with Blackjack and Poker. In July, Rockstar then added the Diamond Casino to GTA Online.
 This introduced slots, cards, craps, roulette, and more to the open-world crime game.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! And then this week, 2K Games highlighted a number of casino-style mechanics coming to NBA 2K20 in a bizarre trailer.
 Basketball fans will get a chance to unlock player cards for the MyTeam mode in pachinko, slots, and a giant spinning wheel.
For many gaming fans, social casino is already here. And it’s probably going to start showing up in more games.
Social casino in GTA Online and NBA 2K is only the beginning Maybe you noticed that NBA 2K, Red Dead Online, and GTA Online all have the same publisher. Take-Two Interactive Software owns 2K Games and Rockstar.
In early August, Take-Two chief executive officer Strauss Zelnick told CNBC’s Jim Cramer that it is deliberately pursuing this space.
“Social casino is a big part of the interactive entertainment business,” said Zelnick. “It’s great to be in the social casino business now through Red Dead Online and GTA Online.” Maybe Zelnick is on to something because players seem like they are embracing social casino. The first day and week that Diamond Casino launched both set records for the most players in the game’s history.
And it’s not like GTA Online is rebounding from some kind of a low point. It was continuing to grow right up to the launch of the casino features.
“In five of the last six months, GTA V has been a top-10 title,” Zelnick said. “And GTA Online set a new record in the first quarter for revenue. That’s before the launch of the casino pack, which has been huge.” And if players like it, expect Take-Two and other publishers to continue capitalizing on casino. Designers have spent decades perfecting the appeal ( read: addictiveness) of slots and similar gambling staples. And if that keeps players coming back to a game, and — more important — if it encourages them to spend more, then this trend is only going to expand in the future.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
