Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter is investigating CEO Jack Dorsey’s account being hacked Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Jack Dorsey, CEO of Square and CEO of Twitter, speaks during an interview November 19, 2015.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey had his Twitter account hacked earlier today. Twitter is investigated the compromise of Dorsey’s personal account, the company said in a tweet, and later said the hack was the result of a “security oversight by the mobile provider.” A group called the Chuckle Gang used the account to send tweets to Dorsey’s 4 million followers to promote a Discord server and use racial slurs.
Those tweets were erased, but it appears they were sent from an app called Cloudhopper, an SMS service acquired by Twitter in 2010.
The phone number associated with the account was compromised due to a security oversight by the mobile provider. This allowed an unauthorized person to compose and send tweets via text message from the phone number. That issue is now resolved.
— Twitter Comms (@TwitterComms) August 31, 2019 Hackers that managed to break into accounts for Google CEO Sundar Pichai and Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg also got a hold of Dorsey’s Twitter account in July 2016.
Imagine getting hacked on your own app — known (@idkalx) August 30, 2019 In 2012, Dorsey said he hacked an email server to get his first job.
VentureBeat reached out to Twitter for further information but a spokesperson declined to provide additional information.
Updated 8:55 am August 31 to include additional explanation from Twitter.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
