Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cuphead surpasses 5 million copies sold Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Forest Follies level in Cuphead.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
After looking forward to Cuphead for years, it’s wild that we live in a world where it came out two years ago. But the stylish, run-‘n’-gun shooter didn’t just stumble out — it skyrocketed to massive success.
Studio MDHR revealed in a tweet yesterday that Cuphead has hit 5 million copies sold across all platforms. And it is celebrating that milestone with a discount and more.
“Cuphead turns two today, and we’re so humbled to announce: It has officially gone five-times platinum,” reads Studio MDHR’s tweet.
 “Starting now the game is 20% off on all platforms for a full week. And stay tuned because we have five days of fun and giveaways planned to celebrate 5 million copies sold.” That 5 million copies sold figure is impressive for just about any game of any scope. But it is especially significant for a smaller development team. It reveals that Cuphead achieved breakthrough appeal to a wider audience.
As for the “five days of fun,” MDHR hasn’t provided any details yet. But fans can likely catch any information about that celebration on the company’s Twitter feed. And if you’ve held off on purchasing the game, you can get it on Xbox One, PC, or Switch for $16 through this week.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Play Cuphead while you charge your Tesla In addition to its two-year anniversary and huge sales numbers, MDHR also revealed last week that it is partnering with Tesla. As part of the latest Tesla update, Model S, X, and 3 automobile owners can play Cuphead on their dashboard system.
The idea is that you’ll play the game while charging the Tesla’s battery, which is a process that often takes more than 20 minutes. So yeah, welcome to the future.
Cuphead: Tesla Edition includes the first level for free. And honestly, it doesn’t even need more than the first few jumps of the tutorial to keep GamesBeat lead writer Dean Takahashi busy for hours.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
