Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages HP Spectre x360 13: 2.8-pound laptop with double the performance of previous model Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn HP Spectre x360 13 HP is refreshing its convertible 13-inch Spectre x360 laptop with new quad-core processors that make it more energy-efficient and double its performance.
The 2-in-1 hybrid laptop and tablet has a near-borderless design with a 90% screen-to-body ratio and intuitive security features.
The laptop weighs 2.8 pounds, offers 22 hours of battery life, and is 13% smaller than the previous generation. With Wi-Fi 6, it also has 2 times the throughput connectivity.
HP said its surveys show six in 10 consumers are concerned about privacy being compromised on laptops. So this model includes the HP Webcam Kill Switch, a dedicated mute microphone key, and optional HP Sure View display, which prevents people from peeking at your screen from the side.
“Premium consumers desire beautiful, highly mobile devices that adapt to their on-the-go lifestyle,” said Kevin Frost, vice president and general manager of consumer PCs at HP, in a statement. “The HP Spectre x360 13 combines the cultivation of innovative design and mobility, along with thoughtful security and performance capabilities that allow customers to pursue their passions without constraint.” Above: You can use the HP Spectre x360 13 as a slate.
The laptop has an optional 400-nit display, HP’s first 4K OLED 13-inch diagonal display with True Black HDR for a 100,000:1 high-contrast ratio 9, and boasts perfect blacks, anti-reflection display for outdoor viewing, and factory color calibration for a 30% wider color range.
The body features a gem cut and dual chamfer angular design, with high-precision aluminum CNC.
Cord management is improved thanks to integrated functionality with USB-C port placement angled in the right corner, while the power button on the left corner of the device helps avoid accidental power shut-offs.
The laptop also uses a quad-core 10th Gen Intel Core processor with Iris Plus Graphics and fits within the specification and key experiences of Intel’s “Project Athena” innovation program.
The HP Spectre x360 comes in Natural Silver or Nightfall Black with Copper Luxe accents and Poseidon Blue with Pale Brass accents.
Above: The HP Spectre x360 13 starts at $1,100.
The HP Spectre x360 13 is expected to be available in October via HP.com, with a starting price of $1,100.
Two models will be available at BestBuy.com : one in Nightfall Black with 16GB of RAM, a 4K OLED display, and 1TB SSD with 32GB Optane and another in Natural Silver with 8GB of RAM, an FHD display, and 512GB SSD with 32GB Optane.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
