Cohere Website For Business Docs Research Cohere Team Tackling Toxicity: Leveraging NLP for Content Moderation For Business Share: Create Safer Online Communities and Boost User Retention with Cutting-Edge NLP TL;DR: Online toxicity is a growing problem that drives users away from platforms and damages brand reputation. Cohere's NLP-powered content moderation solution helps platforms identify and tackle toxic language effectively, offering a seamless user experience while preserving brand integrity.
Identify toxic language in online communities using NLP Toxicity pervades every online community, creating unsafe spaces and driving people away from platforms. Natural language processing (NLP) can help stem the tide.
Cohere helps online platforms identify toxic language and build content moderation solutions that are fit for purpose, so they can focus on delivering amazing user experiences.
Get started with Cohere Contact our sales team for more information Catch me if you can Content moderation tools already exist. But it’s difficult to get ahead of online toxicity because it’s ever-evolving. New terminology pops up. Users find ways to work around word or phrase bans. And every community has different guidelines based on its audience or content.
It’s a complex problem that is currently being met with rudimentary AI or keyword search. But these often allow nuanced (e.g., an insult that requires an understanding of pop culture) or nonuniform (e.g., a slur deliberately spelled incorrectly) hate speech to slip through the net.
How Cohere can help Cohere: Rooting out toxicity in community discourse Cohere’s enterprise-grade NLP platform helps businesses of all types identify toxic language across millions of online conversations with greater breadth and accuracy. Even as people find new ways to hide toxic speech, Cohere can quickly identify it, so content moderation teams can gain insight and build better strategies to minimize harm.
Get started with Cohere Contact our sales team for more information Developers Cohere gives every developer easy access to NLP We’ve made an API that works with every stack. No matter your level of developer experience, the Cohere Platform makes it easy to integrate machine learning into your applications and systems with our Python, Node, and Go SDKs. Our versatile NLP platform offers endpoints for generation, classification, or embedding text data at massive scale. Developers can then use Cohere's endpoints to handle specific tasks, such as text analysis, text classification, and topic labeling.
Read the Content Moderation Guide Start now Our platform can be plugged into any library, giving every developer access to NLP.
Billions on billions Our models have been trained on billions of words, allowing them to understand the nuances and context markers of how people communicate.
Use Cohere’s Classify for automated text classification Starting from the same Transformer architecture as Google’s Search and Translate, Cohere’s Classify endpoint can read and understand text-based conversations, and identify toxicity. Behind the scenes, Cohere’s large language models are continuously learning toxic language patterns, and can recognize when language is used casually or in a malicious manner. Developers can further finetune the models with their own data set per their business or industry.
Get started with Cohere Contact our sales team for more information Here’s how it works Set the road rules First, train Classify by inputting a few example comments from your community. Then, mark each as either “Toxic” or “Non-toxic,” or by any other label that makes sense to your content moderation workflow, like “Violates Policy” or “Permissible.” Read the Content Moderation Guide Start the engine Classify uses this understanding to read and process millions of new comments (text analysis), determine which are toxic or non-toxic (text classification), and organize them based on the labels you set up (topic labeling).
Learn how to use Classify Get driving Once the classification process is complete, you can then use that data in your content moderation workflow to automatically flag or remove toxic comments.
Make online communities safe for everyone Toxicity is rife in many types of communities today. In multiplayer gaming, for example, four out of five players have experienced some form of harassment. By augmenting your content moderation stack with Cohere’s Classify, you can accelerate the fight against toxicity on your platform. As a result, you’ll be better equipped to build safer communities, minimize harmful content, and reduce churn.
Get Started Contact Sales Prevent customers from leaving your platform People come to your platform to enjoy your content and build relationships, but toxic experiences drive many users away — often permanently. Cohere can help you increase retention by maintaining safe online spaces that make your users feel comfortable.
Build trust with your users, and the general public Preserving the integrity of your brand and platform becomes more challenging as you increase your userbase. Leveraging Cohere allows you to crack down on toxic language in all its evolving forms — protecting your users, and your brand’s reputation.
Supercharge your moderation efforts Content moderation teams are stretched thin by the ever-evolving problem of toxicity. Automating toxic language detection with Cohere enables you to reduce the burden on your team, gain deeper insight into trends, and take faster action to address harmful behavior.
How NLP-powered content moderation can benefit you Social media platforms Cohere’s large language models are trained on billions of words and phrases across the Internet — including user-generated posts and comments. Classify can help you identify different forms of toxic content on your platform with confidence. As a result, your moderators are better able to mitigate the spread of hate speech, content that promotes violence, spam, profanity, and more.
Gaming platforms Most gamers want better solutions that enforce compliance with a game’s code of conduct. Using Cohere’s Classify to automate toxic language detection allows you to stay on top of bad behavior, flag language that’s inappropriate for younger players, and report incidents in a scalable and privacy-conscious manner. As a result, your community team is better able to execute your platform’s content moderation and banning policies.
Dating platforms Dating app users regularly block other profiles due to misbehavior and offensive content.
But no one wants to feel like their private conversations are being read by another person. By using Cohere’s Classify to automatically flag toxic or inappropriate language, your users can feel safe on your platform while maintaining a sense of privacy.
Empower your content moderation team with Cohere The ever-evolving landscape of online toxicity presents a challenge for platforms seeking to maintain safe, welcoming environments for their users. Cohere's enterprise-grade NLP platform empowers businesses to combat toxic language in real-time, with more accuracy and nuance than traditional content moderation tools. By integrating Cohere's API, businesses can improve user retention, protect their brand reputation, and streamline their moderation efforts.
Are you ready to revolutionize your content moderation strategy and create a safer online community? Get started with Cohere today and unlock the full potential of NLP-powered content moderation.
Contact our sales team to learn more about how Cohere can transform your platform! Try the Cohere Playground Lights, Camera, Action: Building a Multilingual Movie Recommender! Exploring the Deep World of NLP AI is Eating the World Keep reading Cohere — Nov 16, 2023 Cohere’s Enterprise AI Models Coming Soon to Microsoft Azure AI as a Managed Service Newsroom Seraphina Goldfarb-Tarrant , Maximilian Mozes — Nov 14, 2023 The Enterprise Guide to AI Safety For Business Cohere Team — Nov 03, 2023 Emerging Trends in Generative AI Research: A Selection of Recent Papers Research Cohere.com Get Started About Classify Generate Responsibility Documentation Careers
