Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nintendo Switch sales surpass 41 million Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Switch Lite helps maintain Nintendo's sales momentum.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Nintendo’s operating profit saw a massive jump during its second quarter as Switch sales continue their momentum. The company reported an operating profit of 94,222 million yen ($871.18 million) for the first six months of the fiscal year. That is up 53.4% year-over-year. Net sales, meanwhile, were 443,967 million yen ($4.1 billion). That is up 14.2% over the same period in the previous period.
Over the previous two quarters, Nintendo sold 4.98 million Switch systems and 1.95 million Switch Lite devices. Nintendo chief executive Shuntaro Furukawa is still expecting to sell 18 million Switch systems for the year.
These hardware sales keep the Switch on a breakneck pace.
 It has already outsold the Nintendo 64 and Wii U. And Switch should surpass the Super Nintendo’s worldwide hardware sales of 49.1 million by this holiday or soon after. If the Switch continues to sell at this rate, it should also easily catch up to Game Boy Advance and Nintendo 3DS.
Switch sales should continue to deliver for Nintendo Nintendo has a lot of experience at keeping up excitement for its consoles. For Switch, the company has already turned to its favored trick of revising the hardware.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! In August, Nintendo launched an update of its hybrid home/handheld console with significantly improved battery life and thermal performance. And then it released the smaller, dedicated portable Switch Lite in September.
Over the course of the 3DS’s life, Nintendo released six different models.
 And it seems fair to expect similar treatment for the Switch. This strategy gives Nintendo’s most dedicated fans a chance to upgrade hardware every couple of years. It also enables those hardcore players to gift or sell their old devices to bring in new software customers.
And Nintendo’s operating profits should continue to climb as its future Switch revisions make the device more affordable to manufacture.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
