Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nintendo Switch software sales grow alongside Zelda and Fire Emblem Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A level where you count each copy sold one at a time.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Nintendo Switch software sales are on fire as fans show up for the publisher’s top franchises.
 In the first six months of the fiscal year, consumers purchased 58.49 million games for the hybrid home/handheld console. That is up 38.8% year-over-year. And much of that strength comes from solid performances for familiar franchises like Zelda, Mario, and Fire Emblem.
Super Mario Maker 2 launched in June, and it has hit 3.93 million copies sold. That puts it just behind the lifetime sales of the original Super Mario Maker at 4 million.
The Legend of Zelda: Link’s Awakening sold 3.13 million copies. That comes in just the last nine days of Nintendo’s reporting period. And it puts the game on pace to surpass 3DS’s Zelda game, A Link Between Worlds, which sold 4.07 million copies.
Fire Emblem: Three Houses hit 2.29 million copies sold. That already puts it ahead of Fire Emblem: Awakening’s 2.28 million copies. And Three Houses should catch up to Fire Emblem: Fates’ 2.94 million copies soon.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Switch software sales should stay hot through the holidays These are all huge debuts for these franchises. And this reveals the ongoing power Switch software sales.
Fans aren’t just buying the hardware and leaving it on the shelf. That has happened with previous Nintendo devices — the Wii in particular. Instead, consumers are buying the Switch and then purchasing games with a voracious appetite.
Link’s Awakening, Three Houses, and Mario Maker 2 should all set records within their franchises by the end of this holiday. Fire Emblem and Mario Maker will end up as the best-selling entries in their franchises. And Link’s Awakening will end up as the best-selling 2D Zelda.
And Nintendo should see a similar performance for Luigi’s Mansion 3 , which launched today, October 31, on Switch. That franchise previously appeared on GameCube and Nintendo 3DS, but its Switch entry should surpass both of those predecessors. And Pokémon Sword and Shield , which debuts November 15, could also have some of the best sales in the franchise’s history.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
