Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Black Friday 2019: Everything we recommend this holiday Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Need something for Black Friday? Take a look at our guides! Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Happy Thanksgiving, readers. May your turkey be moist, and your post-meal naps refreshing … because you’re going to need the rest if you plan on doing any Black Friday shopping.
And GamesBeat is here to help. Last week, we published our guides to Black Friday — for those streamers in your life, the PC gamers, the folks who have everything, the fans of old games, the geezer geeks in your life, and even those looking for AI smartphones.
Happy holidays, and may you enjoy this season, play some great games, and encounter as little stress as possible when it comes to giving gifts to your family and friends.
For Twitch and YouTube creators You know somebody who’s looking to stream games or make videos for a living? Or just wants to have some fun while playing games with others watching? Here’s the gear you’ll need — including that all-important green screen so people don’t have to look at your dirty house while you stream.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! For the person who has everything Some people are hard to shop for … especially folks into gaming who go out and grab every big title or piece of tech that comes around. But we have some ideas! For PC gaming The holidays are an ideal time to shop for gear for your PC … or one for a member of your family or a friend.
Retro gifts for the nostalgic gamers in your life Not all game-themed gifts need to be about the new hotness. Sometimes, it’s fun to give something old … or at least a present with a good retro-styling and theme.
The Gloriously Geeky Gift Guide for the Geezer Geeks in your life Look, I’m old, and I embrace it. And these gifts are fantastic for those of us you’ve got a little gray in our hair, a little pain in our joints. I’ve got plenty of ideas here for those who like to read, those who like to build, or those who just need a boombox robot in their lives.
The best AI smartphones Looking for a new phone with all the AI bells-and-whistles? We’ve got a roundup of the best out there. And yes, they play games, too.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
