Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Starting in 2020, China will require videos created using AI or VR to be clearly marked Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
( Reuters ) — Chinese regulators have announced new rules governing video and audio content online, including a ban on the publishing and distribution of “fake news” created with technologies such as artificial intelligence and virtual reality.
Any use of AI or virtual reality also needs to be clearly marked in a prominent manner, and failure to follow the rules could be considered a criminal offense, the Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC) said on its website.
The rules, effective January 1, were published publicly on its website on Friday after being issued to online video and audio service providers last week.
In particular, the CAC highlighted potential problems caused by deepfake technology , which uses AI to create hyper-realistic videos in which a person appears to say or do something they did not.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Deepfake technology could “endanger national security, disrupt social stability, disrupt social order, and infringe upon the legitimate rights and interests of others,” according to a transcript of a press briefing published on the CAC’s website.
China’s top legislative body said earlier this year it was considering making deepfake technology illegal.
In September, a new Chinese app called Zao — that allowed users to swap their faces with celebrities, sports stars, or anyone else in a video clip using deepfake technology — racked up millions of downloads once it was released.
However, it also swiftly drew fire over privacy issues. Zao apologized for the concerns created but said the app would not collect users’ biometric information.
Top video platforms in China include video streaming service providers such as Tencent Video, Alibaba-owned Youku, and iQIYI, as well as short-video platforms such as Kuaishou and ByteDance-owned Douyin.
Podcast platforms such as Himalaya and Dragonfly FM are the most popular audio-sharing apps in the country.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
