Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Stoplight Closes $6M Series A Funding Round, Strengthens Market Leadership in API Design Management Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Series A funding round co-led by Next Coast Ventures, Bill Wood Ventures API design management platform continues category-defining growth Austin company plans to build out engineering efforts, tooling and product roadmap AUSTIN, Texas–(BUSINESS WIRE)–January 30, 2020– Stoplight , the enterprise API Design Management company, today announced a $6M Series A round of funding. Co-led by Next Coast Ventures and Bill Wood Ventures, the current round brings total funding to date to $10M. Stoplight will utilize the funding to augment engineering efforts, accelerating its product roadmap and covering more customer use cases.
A Gartner Cool Vendor in Application Development and Platforms , Stoplight helps organize and manage the more than 22,000 APIs.
 As a lack of standards and governance continues to threaten the resilience of enterprise APIs, Stoplight’s complete lifecycle platform enables best practices, efficiencies and consistencies that were previously lacking.
“With IoT and AI poised to rise to new heights of integration in the coming decade, enterprises finally have the opportunity to unburden their microservices architecture,” said Stoplight CEO Marc Macleod. “Next Coast Ventures and Bill Wood Ventures have deep experience building lasting B2B companies, and we couldn’t ask for better partners to grow Stoplight to the next phase of success.” Launched in the fall of 2019, Stoplight Studio quickly became the category’s best-in-class API designer. The company saw over 200% YoY growth in 2019, hired 15 new employees and launched two new products.
“Stoplight created the category of API design management, and their incredible traction validates what the market needs,” said Mike Smerklo, co-founder and managing director of Next Coast Ventures. “API-first design is becoming a fundamental component of enterprise engineering, and we have full confidence that Stoplight will only deepen their category leadership in the next several years.” “The online world is evolving into a network of connected sensors and smart devices,” said Bill Wood, general partner at Bill Wood Ventures. “Without adequate API design management, the next evolution will never reach its full potential. Stoplight is an integral part of enabling developers to design our new online world.” To learn more about Stoplight, visit stoplight.io.
About Stoplight Stoplight’s mission is to enable all stakeholders working with APIs to be more productive. Stoplight’s API Design Management software platform provides a suite of products that cover the entire pre-production API life cycle. Stoplight’s customers include companies in the Fortune 1000. Stoplight’s products provide a means for design-first microservice application development. Developing good design-first practices will minimize future costs, speed up your time to market and lead to more consistent, higher quality microservice and IoT applications. You can learn more about Stoplight and Stoplight Studio at https://stoplight.io or connect with Stoplight on Twitter @Stoplightio.
About Next Coast Ventures Next Coast Ventures is an Austin-based venture capital firm that partners with bold entrepreneurs building innovative companies in big markets. It provides early-stage capital to high-growth startups in ‘Next Coast’ markets, using macro trends and themes to guide their investment strategy. NCV provides hands-on, company building resources to its growing portfolio through its strong industry network, Entrepreneurs Council program and the founders’ own experiences as entrepreneurs. Learn more at www.nextcoastventures.com.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200130005608/en/ Treble Ethan Parker founder@treblepr.com 512.960.8223 VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
