Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Salesforce’s Einstein Vision & Language services will get named entity recognition Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Salesforce Tower in Indianapolis.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Salesforce announced this morning that starting in June, customers who subscribe to its Einstein Vision & Language services will gain access to named entity recognition.
 This means sales reps will be able to tap the recently launched Einstein Voice Assistant and Einstein Bots to update fields in customer relationship management forms. For example, if a rep says, “Update the deal size to $500,000,” natural entity recognition will understand that “$500,000” is a “Money” entity and change the corresponding “Deal Amount” field to “$500,000.” As Zineb Laraki, Salesforce product lead for Einstein Vision & Language, explained in a blog post, named entity recognition is similar to word classification in that it allows users to identify words in predefined categories (i.e. name, organization, date, phone number, and website address). If the new version of the Einstein Bots platform came across the sentence “Please change my shipping address to 9 Cloud St, Cumulonimbus, CA 90260,” for instance, named entity recognition would enable it to understand that “9 Cloud St, Cumulonimbus, CA 90260” is a “Location” entity and to update the “Delivery Address” field accordingly.
It’s worth noting that most major cloud-hosted natural language services already support named entity recognition. Amazon Comprehend, a service that leverages AI to glean insights from and spot relationships in text, enables customers to train AI models on up to 12 custom entities at once. For its part, Microsoft offers an entity recognition skill within its Cognitive Services suite that can extract items of different types from text, and Google Cloud’s natural language API can handle a range of entity and entity sentiment analysis tasks.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! But Laraki notes that Salesforce’s goal isn’t necessarily to create the best natural language processing engine in the world. Rather, the idea is to tailor Einstein Vision & Language to the needs of customer relationship management and Salesforce clients. “This goal is very specific. We’re focused on solving problems in a way that drives value for our customers,” said Laraki, noting that named entity recognition will also be available to Salesforce Mobile and Salesforce Service Cloud. “We are working on adjusting functionality and models so we can provide world-class Einstein solutions to our customers.” Salesforce unveiled a slew of natural language processing services last year during its annual Dreamforce conference in San Francisco. One of those was a product called Service Cloud Voice that embeds telephony inside Service Cloud. Alongside it, Salesforce launched a voice app development toolkit dubbed Einstein Voice Skills, as well as a revamped Einstein Voice Assistant, the virtual assistant integrated with every app built on Salesforce Customer 360.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
