Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release CIBC Innovation Banking Provides InformedDNA With US$10 Million Growth Financing Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. & MENLO PARK, Calif.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–February 27, 2020– CIBC Innovation Banking is pleased to announce a US$10 million growth capital financing for InformedDNA.
Founded in 2005, InformedDNA was built with the vision to provide genetic testing services to patients and health insurers. The company optimizes genetic-related healthcare spending and patient care by improving access to clinical and scientific genomics expertise. It is the nation’s largest independent provider of genetic specialists enabled by a comprehensive evidence-based knowledge library for genetic tests and hereditary conditions.
InformedDNA recently announced a strategic growth investment with private equity funds TT Capital Partners, NovaQuest Capital Management, and Frist Cressey Ventures. The company will use the capital to continue scaling its technology and expand its staff of genetic counselors.
“InformedDNA has a deep understanding of the genetic testing space and uses this knowledge to help both patients and insurance companies improve outcomes,” said Jeff Chapman, a Managing Director in CIBC Innovation Banking’s Menlo Park office.
“CIBC Innovation Banking understands the capital needs of our business and is willing to provide a flexible debt solution so we can continue to execute on our business strategy,” added David Nixon, CEO of InformedDNA.
About CIBC Innovation Banking CIBC Innovation Banking delivers strategic advice, cash management and funding to North American innovation companies at each stage of their business cycle, from start up to IPO and beyond. With offices in Atlanta, Austin, Chicago, Denver, Menlo Park, Montreal, Reston, Toronto and Vancouver, the team has extensive experience and a strong, collaborative approach that extends across CIBC’s commercial banking and capital markets businesses in the U.S. and Canada.
About InformedDNA InformedDNA is the authority on the appropriate use of genetic testing. It leverages the expertise of the largest full-time staff of independent, board-certified genetics specialists in the U.S. to help ensure health plans, hospitals, employers, clinicians and patients all have access to the highest quality genetic services. Key offerings include clinical genetic counseling, genetic testing utilization management, genetic testing payment integrity, and expert genetics clinical trial support. For more information: www.InformedDNA.com View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200227005493/en/ Kathryn Lawler, 416-242-1943 kathryn.lawler@cibc.com VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
