Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Stadia gets one-year exclusive on Modus Games’ Lost Words: Beyond the Page Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Lost Words is a timed exclusive for Google Stadia.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google Stadia is getting a boost today as indie publisher Modus Games announced it will bring several titles to Google’s cloud gaming service this year, beginning with role-playing game Lost Words: Beyond the Page.
Modus describes as Lost Words as a touching tale of a young girl’s personal growth through grief. Lost Words will release first on Stadia on March 27 for one year before also launching on PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch, Xbox One, and PC.
Stadia has been catching flak lately for being so slow to come up with exclusives and promised features.
Sketchbook Games is developing the game. The studio was founded by game designer Mark Backler, who previously worked at companies such as EA, Lionhead, and Sony on a variety of games.
Modus is also publishing two more games for Stadia — Rock of Ages 3: Make & Break and Cris Tales (another RPG). Those games will also appear on other platforms.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: In Lost Words, a girl suffers from grief and makes a journey.
Today’s Lost Words: Beyond the Page release date was announced alongside a new raw gameplay video highlighting the story of Izzy, a bright girl reflecting on creative reimaginings of the memories recorded in her journal.
Izzy’s page-turning journey sees her leaping across the very words of each journal entry, dashing through lush, surreal vistas buzzing with the magic of childlike wonder.
Lost Words: Beyond the Page is also supported by Creative England and Microsoft’s Greenshoots Programme, The Wellcome Trust, Games Co London, and The UK Games Fund.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
