Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Sverica Capital Management Announces Investment in Cytracom Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn SAN FRANCISCO–(BUSINESS WIRE)–February 27, 2020– Sverica Capital Management LP (“Sverica”), a private equity investment firm, announced today that it has made an investment in Cytracom (“Cytracom” or the “Company”), a leading provider of cloud-based unified communications (“UCaaS”) software and solutions built exclusively for the Managed Service Provider (“MSP”) channel.
Based in Dallas, TX, Cytracom has over two thousand MSP partners throughout North America. As the move to the cloud continues, Cytracom’s UCaaS offering enables its partners to expand their service portfolios and provide true end-to-end managed IT services. The Company plans to invest further into features that empower its MSP partners to better sell, support, and manage UCaaS for their customers.
“Our focus has always been on enabling MSPs to deliver best-of-breed cloud-based voice and messaging solutions,” said Zane Conkle, co-founder and CEO of Cytracom. “A huge driver of our growth has been our transformation into a truly comprehensive UCaaS offering. This investment from Sverica allows us to accelerate our growth and empower more partners with a leading channel-only UCaaS solution for their portfolio.” The senior management team, including co-founder and CEO Zane Conkle, will continue to lead the Company.
Frank Young , Managing Partner at Sverica, along with Michael Dougherty , Vice President at Sverica, will join Cytracom’s Board of Directors.
“Through its commitment to innovation and reputation for reliability, Cytracom has positioned itself to take advantage of the tremendous market opportunity and widespread adoption of cloud communication solutions,” said Frank Young.
 “We look forward to partnering with Cytracom’s senior leadership as they drive the Company through the next phase of growth.” About Cytracom Founded in 2008 and based in Dallas, TX, Cytracom provides unified communications software exclusively through the MSP channel. With a proprietary platform built on flexible, cloud-based technology, Cytracom delivers a UCaaS suite tailored to small and medium-sized business needs. The Company’s 100% channel-driven model provides its end users the ease and comfort of working with a local, trusted managed service provider. To learn more visit www.cytracom.com.
About Sverica Capital Management Sverica Capital Management is a leading growth-oriented private equity firm that has raised over $1.1 billion across five funds. The firm acquires, invests in and actively builds companies that are, or could become, leaders in their industries. Since inception, Sverica has followed a “business builder” approach to investing and takes an active supporting role in its portfolio companies. Sverica devotes significant internal time and resources to help its management teams develop and execute growth strategies and proactively looks for levers to pull to accelerate growth by reinvesting back into those companies. Sverica firmly believes in building businesses collaboratively that can endure for the long term by starting with a strong foundation and bringing the right people and playbook to drive reinvestment and ultimately strong returns for our investors. For more information, please visit www.sverica.com.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200227005615/en/ Media Inquiries: Sverica Capital Management LP Nathalie Allen 415-249-4906 nathalie@sverica.com VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
