Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release World Premiere for Swiss-based Watchmaker Louis Chevrolet Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn PORRENTRUY, Switzerland–(BUSINESS WIRE)–February 28, 2020– Innovation : Louis Chevrolet’s leitmotif Louis Chevrolet Swiss Watches, a watchmaking brand based in Porrentruy, Switzerland, is innovating a range of watches including the brand’s latest pending patent – the flying date – with a reveal on Kickstarter from 11th March, combined with another world exclusive : a calendar and date fully luminescent in the dark.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200228005004/en/ One of the Frontenac automatic LC9 version by Louis Chevrolet Swiss Watches (Photo: Louis Chevrolet Swiss Watches) Wider and brighter visibility The combination of these innovative concepts presented as a preview, reconstrues how the date is read on the watch. The conventional day window is moved 360 degrees on the dial and makes luminescent material able to be placed on the date disc, on the calendar numbers and on the reflector. Thanks to these innovations, readability of the date is increased by 50% compared to the standard on the movements used.
Louis Chevrolet: innovative concepts Amongst the pioneers of Swiss watchmaking to sell exclusively by digital means, Louis Chevrolet is looking to integrate in its watches an appropriate balance between innovation, design and quality, all at attractive prices. This formula enables watchmaking lovers to enjoy cutting-edge technical innovations, all while guaranteeing the most reasonable and suitable costs.
“Selling our watches only allows us to adopt a fair and favourable pricing policy for our customers. We cover the costs of production, marketing and administration before reinjecting the profit into research and development. On products of a similar range, we can be up to 50% cheaper than our competitors,” says André Saunier, CEO of Louis Chevrolet Swiss Watches.
A crowdfunding campaign inspired by “vintage cars” In order to successfully complete their project, Louis Chevrolet is launching a Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign on 11th March. The quartz and automatic watches will be presented to bring together these two world premieres. Contributors will be rewarded with exclusive advantages. Price starting at CHF 358 (USD 360). More information on www.louischevrolet.com or http://bit.ly/2uUduqM About Louis Chevrolet Based in Porrentruy, Louis Chevrolet Swiss Watches sells since 2006 watches designed and manufactured in its factory. The name Louis Chevrolet pays homage to the eponymous man, of Swiss origin, founder of the “Chevrolet Motor Car Company”. The factory is located less than 10km from the place where Louis Chevrolet spent his childhood.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200228005004/en/ Press Florent Bregnard Communication manager + 41 (0)324653808 presse@louischevrolet.ch VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
