Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages LinkedIn details how it keeps new features from promoting inequality Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
In a newly published paper, LinkedIn describes the internal approach it’s taken to pairing product testing with economic metrics to lower users’ barriers to networking opportunities. The company claims that across thousands of A/B tests it analyzed, the approach reshaped research and design practices across teams, increasing understanding of the underlying causes of inequality.
As the coauthors of the paper point out, even products that appear to have been designed in a “responsible” or “fair” way, based on assumptions of parity, can drive a wedge between users. For instance, an app update that improves overall engagement but runs slowly on older devices might affect members across demographic categories in a manner that doesn’t appear in a typical A/B test, because traditional A/B testing looks at averages focused on an idealized “average user.” LinkedIn’s solution taps experimentation platforms to analyze product changes , AI model revisions , and internal business decisions , with the goal of measuring the effect on real-world users. It complements the hundreds of A/B tests LinkedIn runs each day, which track thousands of variables from visual changes in apps to improvements in recommendation algorithms.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Starting last year, LinkedIn says it began tracking the inequality impact of the experiments on core business and member value metrics. It also created a special multidisciplinary team that discusses the impact of notable experiments, and that invites the owners of the products to a working session to discuss the impact.
Each experiment started with the questions: If feature A were to be rolled out, what would be the share of contributions from the top 1% of members, in terms of engagement and contributions? Would inequality impact go up or down between LinkedIn’s most and least engaged members? From the year’s worth of data, LinkedIn found that seemingly metric-neutral interventions aren’t often neutral for everyone; while metrics might not be affected by, say, a back-end infrastructure change, some members are. It also found that notifications have a strong impact on inequality of engagement, and that strategically batching notifications for highly engaged members results in a qualitatively better user experience for that group of users.
LinkedIn also reports that a rich onboarding experience for new members has a positive impact on both average engagement and quality of engagement, since it helps members at the highest risk of dropping off. And speed, availability, and low-bandwidth optimized apps turned out to matter a great deal to inclusiveness, because members who only have access to slower devices and connections may experience other inequalities.
Going forward, LinkedIn says it hopes to collaborate with experts across domains to look for new ideas outside of the typical best practices in the technology industry.
“Combining measures of inequality and A/B testing provides us two distinct advantages,” wrote LinkedIn in a blog post. “First, instead of only measuring inequality impact, we can also trace it back to its causes: a specific set of features and product decisions … Second, unlike classical algorithmic fairness approaches, it helps us identify features that increase inequality impact without having to rely only on explicitly protected categories … We hope that increased understanding of the underlying causes of inequality can lead to similar approaches to ethical product design across several different industries.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
