Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages MLB Champions mobile game gets big 2.0 update Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Lucid Sight has launched a big 2.0 update for its MLB Champions mobile game, which takes a big swing at using blockchain technology to entice gamers.
The Los Angeles company hopes that those who miss the physical Major League Baseball season will get their fix with virtual ball games instead.
Blockchain is a secure and transparent ledger technology that serves as the underpinning of cryptocurrencies, and Lucid Sight uses blockchain to identify rare items for its collectible games.
The update also introduces updated MLB player rosters reflecting offseason moves, new rewards, updated MLB digital collectible figures, and an updated web marketplace for players to transact with each other.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! MLB Champions weaves collecting, tapping, competitive player-vs-player gameplay, trading, and a peer-to-peer marketplace with MLB players, stats, and events. Players can download MLB Champions for free on the iOS and Google Play app stores.
Above: MLB Champions lets you own and collect characters.
Baseball has a rich history of collecting, fans buying and selling collectibles to each other, fantasy, and deep team fandom. You can pick your favorite team, build your roster, train and play ball. You build your collection and upgrade your rosters to compete at the highest level. If you climb to the top of the leaderboard, you can collect rewards such as one-of-a-kind, holiday-themed bat-and-glove combos and bases like gold, silver, fireworks, and lava. Players can compete against other fans and trade.
Lucid Sight has 30 employees and it has raised $11 million.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
