Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Niantic acquires 6D.ai, which is mapping the world in 3D Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn 6D.ai's mesh technology Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Niantic has acquired 6D.ai , an augmented reality company that is building a 3D map of the world using only smartphone cameras.
CEO John Hanke said in a blog post that the dynamic 3D map of the world could enable new kinds of planet-scale AR experiences.
“This means we’re even closer to an AR platform that will unlock the ability for any developer to make content for current and future AR hardware,” Hanke said.
Niantic has always wanted to infuse our daily lives and routines with a bit of fun and adventure by building an augmented world that parallels the physical.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “This bold pursuit requires significant advancements in AR technology that can only be made possible with an accurate and constantly updated 3D map of the real world,” Hanke said. “Now, we’ll be able to leverage 6D.ai’s deep expertise and significant breakthroughs in AR research and engineering to further our ongoing work in support of our mission.” Above: 6D.ai founders Matt Miesnieks (left) and Victor Prisacariu.
Founded in 2017, 6D.ai spun out of Oxford University’s Active Vision Lab, building computer vision-based technologies and tools to deal with problems AR developers face, such as 3D reconstruction and AR persistence. 6D.ai used Qualcomm’s Snapdragon-based XR technology.
These and many other AR features are important parts of the Niantic experience, in service of player and developer communities. For the people who play Niantic games today, it means more AR experiences to come, and for developers, the company believes it has an innovative platform to bring their AR visions to life.
Hanke said we have just scratched the surface of the impact that AR can have on our connection to the people and places around us.
“Imagine everyone, at the same time, being able to experience Pokémon habitats in the real world or watch dragons fly through the sky and land on buildings in real time,” Hanke said. “Imagine our favorite characters taking us on a walking tour of hidden city gems, or friends leaving personal notes for others to find later.” These are just a few examples of the kinds of experiences that large-scale AR mapping can enable, Hanke said. 6D.ai had 16 employees when we wrote about them last August.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
