Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Qarnot Computing raises $6.5 million to heat buildings with wasted energy from cloud computing Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Qarnot_Q.rad Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Qarnot Computing has raised $6.5 million for its system that captures the heat from computers and repurposes it for residential and business climate systems.
Rather than build a centralized datacenter, which requires huge amounts of energy to cool, Qarnot has developed a distributed architecture that places its processing machines in people’s homes in units that look like a typical radiator. The computers are networked to provide high-power cloud computing for clients, and the heat they generate is used to warm a home or apartment.
Qarnot has drawn praise for its innovative approach to tackling the massive energy consumption that’s created as more services move online and the number of power-hungry datacenters explodes.
The Paris-based company has been working on its residential cloud computers, QH•1, for several years. With microprocessors embedded in the back, the units are sold to apartment buildings and placed inside each unit. The machines are connected by fiber optic cables, and Quarnot sells the service as a “green cluster” of cloud computing. Residents can control the release of heat, much as they would any traditional climate system. In its home market, Qarnot says it now heats 1,000 housing units, including an entire building in Bordeaux.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! More recently, the company has unveiled an industrial version that basically turns the cloud computing system into a water boiler. The QB•1 digital boiler captures the heat released by 24 servers and uses it to heat water circulating in boiler pipes attached to the machines. These are targeted for large commercial buildings.
The digital boiler is now being used by Casino, one of France’s largest grocery store chains, to heat one of its warehouses.
On the cloud computing side, the company has now signed up several major French banks, including BNP Paribas, Société Générale, and Natixis. And it also landed a partnership with Illumination Mac Guff, the Paris-based animation studio that is owned by Universal Pictures and makes the Despicable Me movies.
Qarnot president Paul Benoit said the latest funding will be used for continued research, product development, and sales expansion.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
