Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Teamfight Tactics reaches 4.5 million installs on mobile Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Teamfight Tactics is like Auto Chess.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Teamfight Tactics is already a major hit on mobile. Developer Riot Games launched TFT on March 19 , and the auto battler has already surpassed 4.5 million downloads, according to data-tracking firm Sensor Tower.
 This puts Teamfight Tactics far ahead of its autobattler competition in terms of rate of adoption. Riot’s game has also already surpassed $1 million in revenue on mobile.
Through its first seven days, Teamfight Tactics hit 3.6 million downloads on mobile. That’s compared to 1 million for Auto Chess: Origin during its debut week.
Dota Underlords , which is extremely popular on PC, had only 105,000 downloads on mobile in its first week. But that lower number is because many fans had already downloaded it through an early access program.
Above: Teamfight Tactics stands above its competition.
The auto battler genre has found a massive audience across multiple platforms. And Teamfight Tactics players and many new fans were waiting for the game to finally appear on mobile.
Most of that demand came from the United States, which made up 17% of the auto battler’s total downloads in its first week. South Korea was No. 2 for downloads with 13%.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! But while the U.S. had more downloads, South Korea made up 54.4% of the total spending with an estimated $712,000. That’s more than twice what U.S. players spent.
“Analysis of Sensor Tower data shows that mobile auto chess titles have traditionally seen their greatest amount of user spending originate from Asia,” Sensor Tower insight strategist Katie Williams writes in a blog post.
 “[But] the relatively larger number of U.S. installs seen by the game in its first week suggests that it has a better chance of breaking into the North American market than its competitors.” Personally, I’m going to wait for a more American auto battler. I’m thinking a Tiger King Auto Chess.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
