Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Guilded raises $7 million for gaming chat platform Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Guilded is building a new chat platform for gamers.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Guilded has raised $7 million to build what it calls the “ultimate chat platform for gaming communities.” It sounds a bit like rival chat platform Discord to me, but the San Francisco company has convinced some veteran investors to give it money.
Matrix Partners led the round, with participation from Initialized Capital, Susa Ventures, and Sterling.VC. Ilya Sukhar, a general partner at Matrix Partners, joined the Guilded board.
Guilded will use the capital to expand the company’s team, build out features and functionality, and create strategic partnerships with top games publishers and developers as well as esports teams and organizations.
Guilded has already built features for gaming communities into the platform, including voice and video chat, group calendars, and scheduling tools. In June, Guilded will launch its tournaments feature.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! CEO Eli Brown, a former pro gamer who previous was part of Instagram’s growth team and Microsoft’s Xbox division, founded Guilded in 2017. It serves professional esports teams and over 50,000 high school, collegiate, casual and semi-pro teams. The company has 15 employees.
Reddit founder Alexis Ohanian, managing partner at Initialized Capital, said in a statement that he wishes Guilded was around when he was a teenager playing with an Everquest Guild. He said he is excited to support them on the next phase of their journey as they start to support tournaments, voice, video and more.
In an email, Guilded said the big difference between Guilded and other platforms is that it is built from the ground up with gaming needs in mind (calendar/scheduling functionality, direct channels to games, unique features to support guilds, just to name a few).
Guilded will be available through web browser but also as apps for Windows and Mac OSX as well as Google Play for Android devices and App Store for iPhone.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
