Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Intel launches S-Series CPUs primed for gamers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Intel claims it has the fastest gaming processor.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The competition in processors between Intel and Advanced Micro Devices heats up today as Intel launches its S-Series family of microprocessors targeted at gaming machines.
AMD has Intel beat on core counts with 16 cores and 32 threads, while Intel’s latest processors have 10 cores and 20 threads. But Intel’s processors are clocked higher at up to 5.3GHz, compared with AMD’s at 4.7GHz.
That’s a close competition and much closer than AMD has ever been before. But Intel claims it now has the edge over AMD with its turbo-boost frequency that reaches up to 5.3 GHz. Of course, this means that in some cases with multithreaded games, AMD will do better, and Intel could do better with single-threaded games. Intel claims that most games and applications still depend on high-frequency cores, and so faster clock speeds will lead to better framerates.
Intel said that Sega’s Total War: Three Kingdoms dynasty mode has been optimized for the new Intel processor. As a result, players will see as many as six times more soldiers onscreen at a time. That’s should make the graphics a lot prettier. Sega’s Creative Assembly developed the dynasty mode in partnership with Intel so players can fight off waves of attackers.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Meanwhile, Intel says that a feature dubbed Software Masked Occlusion Culling can tap better CPU resources to eliminate culling artifacts from Remnant: From the Ashes.
Intel has added some new overclocking features as well. Intel said that its processor can run PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds 10% faster in frames per second compared to its previous generation of chips, and 63% faster than a three-year-old PC.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
