Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages EA delays Madden NFL 21 announcement due to U.S. protests Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Madden topped one of the slowest August months on record.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Electronic Arts said it is postponing its announcement about Madden NFL 21 for Monday due to the protests happening in American cities.
This coming week was the beginning of many game announcements that were previously scheduled for the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3), but the announcement from the Madden NFL 20 account on Twitter suggests that the nation may be too focused on the protests ignited by the death of African-American George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin, who has been arrested.
EA did not set a new date for the postponed event.
An official statement from EA SPORTS pic.twitter.com/MKdgJjvKJB — Madden NFL 20 (@EAMaddenNFL) May 31, 2020 Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The unrest has continued in Minneapolis and the other U.S. cities for five days, and if it does continue, I think we can expect that more of these events will be postponed. Sony has a PlayStation 5 reveal event scheduled for June 4.
 The game industry has had to cancel or postpone numerous events during the pandemic, but this is the first related to the U.S. protests and to what some are calling the “ racism virus ” in the U.S.
If the turmoil continues and more events have to be postponed, more of the best-laid plans of game publishers and marketers will be thrown into disarray. In an email, an EA spokesman said the company has nothing else to reveal at this time.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
