Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy’s Edge is a new VR adventure from Oculus and ILMxLAB Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy’s Edge is a game from ILMxLab.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
ILMxLAB has announced Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy’s Edge, a new virtual reality experience being created in collaboration with Oculus Studios.
 It is coming out this year. The announcement didn’t reveal what platforms the title is coming to, although Oculus devices are a safe bet.
Star Wars has been a big part of VR, although it often brands its releases more as experiences instead of games, like with Trials on Tatooine and Vader Immortal.
 This story takes place between the events of The Last Jedi and The Rise of Skywalker.
 It’s set on Batuu, the same planet that guests visit at Disneyland and Walt Disney World in their new Star Wars-themed lands, which are called Galaxy’s Edge. So, you know, now we’ll hear some tales from that place, I guess. That’s a nice bit of brand synergy for Disney.
“The rich storytelling in Star Wars: Galaxy’s Edge has redefined what a Disney park experience can be, and we are thrilled fans will have an opportunity to discover new stories, meet new characters and explore new regions of the planet Batuu in Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy’s Edge,” said Scott Trowbridge, Walt Disney Imagineering creative executive, in the announcement. “Now our guests can immerse themselves in these stories both inside and outside our parks.” It’s not clear how Tales from the Galaxy’s Edge will play, although Oculus says that it “will include multiple styles of gameplay and difficulty settings to bring in a wide variety of players.” The Galaxy’s Edge in Disney parks includes a market, a Resistance hideout, a First Order base, a smuggling operation, a droid factory, and a secret lightsaber workshop.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
