Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google researchers investigate how transfer learning works Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Transfer learning’s ability to store knowledge gained while solving a problem and apply it to a related problem has attracted considerable attention. But despite recent breakthroughs, no one fully understands what enables a successful transfer and which parts of algorithms are responsible for it.
That’s why Google researchers sought to develop analysis techniques tailored to explainability challenges in transfer learning. In a new paper , they say their contributions help clear up a few of the mysteries around why machine learning models transfer successfully — or fail to.
During the first of several experiments in the study, the researchers sourced images from a medical imaging data set of chest X-rays (CheXpert) and sketches, clip art, and paintings from the open source DomainNet corpus. The team partitioned each image into equal-sized blocks and shuffled the blocks randomly, disrupting the images’ visual features, after which they compared agreements and disagreements between models trained from pretraining versus from scratch.
The researchers found the reuse of features — the individual measurable properties of a phenomenon being observed — is an important factor in successful transfers, but not the only one. Low-level statistics of the data that weren’t disturbed by things like shuffling the pixels also play a role. Moreover, any two instances of models trained from pretrained weights made similar mistakes, suggesting these models capture features in common.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Working from this knowledge, the researchers attempted to pinpoint where feature reuse occurs within models. They observed that features become more specialized the denser the model (in terms of layers) and that feature-reuse is more prevalent in layers closer to the input. (Deep learning models contain mathematical functions arranged in layers that transmit signals from input data.) The researchers also found it’s possible to fine-tune pretrained models on a target task earlier than originally assumed — without sacrificing accuracy.
“Our observation of low-level data statistics improving training speed could lead to better network initialization methods,” the researchers wrote. “Using these findings to improve transfer learning is of interest for future work.” A better understanding of transfer learning could yield substantial algorithmic performance gains. Google is using transfer learning in Google Translate so insights gleaned through training on high-resource languages — including French, German, and Spanish (which have billions of parallel examples) — can be applied to the translation of low-resource languages like Yoruba, Sindhi, and Hawaiian (which have only tens of thousands of examples). Another Google team has applied transfer learning techniques to enable robot control algorithms to learn how to manipulate objects faster with less data.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
