Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages IBM will use AI to pipe in simulated crowd noise during the U.S. Open Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
As it has every year since around 2015, longtime U.S. Open sponsor and media partner IBM detailed the AI technologies it will use to support the tournament beginning on August 31. In a typical year, these technologies aren’t anything out of the ordinary. In 2019, IBM demoed AI that measures player performance and selects highlights, for example. But the pandemic introduced challenges that have required the company — along with countless internet service providers and utilities — to develop new solutions.
The first is AI Sounds, which aims to recreate the ambient noise normally emanating from the stadium. IBM says it leveraged its AI Highlights platform to digest video from last year’s U.S. Open and rank the “excitement level” of various clips, which it compiled into a reel and classified to give each a crowd reaction score. IBM used hundreds of hours of footage to extract crowd sounds, which it plans to make available to ESPN production teams that will serve it dynamically based on play.
How natural these AI-generated sounds will be remains a question. Some fans have taken issue with the artificiality of noises produced by platforms like Electronic Arts’ Sounds of the Stands, which simulates crowd sounds using technology borrowed from the publishers’ FIFA game series. The NBA has reportedly considered mixing in audio from NBA 2K during its broadcasts, and the NFL is expected to use artificial fan noise for its live games this year if they’re played in empty stadiums.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! But even if AI Sounds is a dud, IBM hopes to engage fans with Watson Discovery, its text analytics and natural language processing service. The company says it will facilitate tennis debates between viewers on USOpen.org, starting with questions like “Is Billie Jean King the most influential tennis player in history?” As these debates occur, Watson Discovery will analyze “millions” of news and sports sources for insights to deliver pro and con arguments.
Watson Discovery will also provide “AI-powered” insights through USOpen.org and US Open smartphone apps ahead of each tennis match, courtesy of a feature called Match Insights. As its name suggests, Match Insights will search for and analyze articles, blogs, statistics, and more to gather relevant information about opponents and players and translate that information into narrative form.
IBM says AI Sounds and the Watson Discovery features were developed by IBM iX, its in-house digital design agency, in 75 days. (The United States Tennis Association made the decision to hold the U.S. Open without fans on June 17.) A team of IBM iX employees collaborated virtually with the United States Tennis Association digital team, cocreating the fan experiences to fast-track their deployment.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
