Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Medal of Honor: Above and Beyond will launch in holidays with single-player and multiplayer VR Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Respawn Entertainment unveiled the latest gameplay of Medal of Honor: Above and Beyond , a big-budget virtual reality game coming from the folks who created the original Medal of Honor. This World War II shooter will have multiplayer action, the developer revealed for the first time at Gamescom’s opening ceremonies today.
Respawn CEO Vince Zampella introduced the latest gameplay trailer. It is coming at an unspecified date during the holiday season of 2020 on the Oculus Rift and Oculus Rift S VR headsets. I was a little worried about this game, as I played it in September but hadn’t heard anything about it since. I’m delighted it’s coming soon.
Game director Peter Hirschmann (showing off his pandemic beard) said this Medal of Honor is about putting the player in the boots of a solider fighting in World War II. He said VR makes the experience more immersive. You are recruited into the Office of Strategic Services (the precursor of the CIA) during World War II. You become an operative behind enemy lines.
Above: Medal of Honor: Above and Beyond is set in World War II.
The game has dozens of levels, a script of 120 pages, and a story that follows three acts. It goes from the early part of the war to D-Day to the German secret weapons program. You experience the story completely in first person, as if you are there, Hirschmann said.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! And it will have multiplayer action as well. “We are shipping a whole suite of” multiplayer VR modes, Hirschmann said.
Players will experience missions that will take them from Tunisia in North Africa to across Europe, participating in some of the biggest moments of the war.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
