Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Jurassic World: Evolution stomps onto Switch on November 3 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Everybody walk the dinosaur.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Jurassic World: Evolution is getting a Switch port on November 3, the Frontier Developments game studio announced today.
The simulation game has players creating and operating their own dinosaur park. This is the Complete Edition, so it includes all of the downloadable content released for the original game, which came out for PC, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in 2018.
Licensed games for console and PC are becoming more of a rarity these days (they thrive on mobile’s free-to-play model), but Jurassic World: Evolution became a hit. It sold over 2 million copies seven months after its launch. Coming to Switch can open the game up to an even larger audience.
The game also includes dialogue, with actors reprising their roles from the original Jurassic Park film, including Jeff Goldblum, Laura Dern, and Sam Neill. It also features Bryce Dallas Howard reprising her role as Claire Dearing from the Jurassic World films.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
