Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages NIST is crowdsourcing differential privacy techniques for public safety datasets Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is launching the Differential Privacy Temporal Map Challenge.
 It’s a set of contests, with cash prizes attached, intended to crowdsource new ways of handling personally identifiable information (PII) in public safety datasets.
The problem is that although rich, detailed data is valuable for researchers and building AI models — in this case, in the areas of emergency planning and epidemiology — using it raises serious and potentially dangerous data privacy and rights issues.
 Even if datasets are kept under a proverbial lock and key, malicious actors can, based on just a few data points, re-infer sensitive information about people.
The solution is to de-identify the data such that it remains useful without compromising individuals’ privacy. NIST already has a clear standard for what that means. In part, it says “De-identification removes identifying information from a dataset so that individual data cannot be linked with specific individuals.” The purpose of the challenge is to find better ways to do that using a technique called differential privacy, which essentially introduces enough noise into datasets to ensure privacy.
Differential privacy is widely used in products from companies like Google, Apple, and Nvidia , and lawmakers are leaning on it to inform data privacy policy.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Specifically, the challenge focuses on temporal map data, which contains temporal and spatial information. The call for the NIST contest states, “Public safety agencies collect extensive data containing time, geographic, and potentially personally identifiable information.” For example, a 911 call would reveal a person’s name, age, gender, address, symptoms or situation, and more. The NIST announcement notes that “Temporal map data is of particular interest to the public safety community.” The Differential Privacy Temporal Map Challenge stands on the shoulders of previous NIST differential privacy challenges — one centered on synthetic data and one aimed at developing the technique more generally.
NIST is offering a total of $276,000 in prize money across three categories. The Better Meter Stick will award a total of $29,000 to entries that measure the quality of differentially private algorithms. A total of $147,000 is available for those who come up with the best balance of data utility and privacy preservation. And the wing of the contest that awards the usability of source code for open source endeavors has a $100,000 pot.
The challenge is accepting submissions now through January 5, 2021. Non-federal agency partners include DrivenData, HeroX, and Knexus Research. Winners will be announced February 4, 2021.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
