Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Using machine learning to tackle some of the world’s biggest problems (Infographic) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Presented by AWS Machine Learning It takes a combination of imagination, innovation, and machine learning to help create change in the world. The promise of machine learning for social good is being realized as the technology evolves to a point where organizations across industries and categories can leverage its unique power. Innovators are tapping into the best practices, in-depth expertise, and powerful solutions of companies like AWS to launch new initiatives and solutions that are improving lives and protecting our planet right now.
With machine learning, organizations are making inroads toward protecting biodiversity, supporting our veterans, finding homes for the homeless, understanding climate change, and more. But this is just the beginning.
Here’s a look at some of the world’s most powerful, promising applications of machine learning to benefit society.
For a more in-depth read, see this recent article on VentureBeat and see more ways machine learning is being used to tackle today’s biggest social, humanitarian, and environmental challenges.
Sponsored articles are content produced by a company that is either paying for the post or has a business relationship with VentureBeat, and they’re always clearly marked. Content produced by our editorial team is never influenced by advertisers or sponsors in any way. For more information, contact sales@venturebeat.com.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
