Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Far Cry 6 and Rainbow Six: Quarantine delayed past Q1 2021 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn "El Presidente" Anton Castillo (left) and his son talk about power in Far Cry 6. Actor Giancarlo Esposito plays Castillo.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Far Cry 6 had a release date of February 18, 2021 , but Ubisoft now plans to release the open-world adventure during its next fiscal year. That begins April 2021 and ends March 2022. The unfortunately named Rainbow Six: Quarantine is also still coming, but the publisher is scheduling for that same period. Ubisoft announced these delays in its first-half financial report today. This move comes as a result of production delays due to the complications of the pandemic and work-from-home.
“Despite having moved Far Cry 6 and Rainbow Six Quarantine to 2021-22 to leverage their full potential in the context of production challenges caused by COVID-19, our new non-IFRS operating income targets for 2020-21 remain within the boundaries we set back in May,” Ubisoft chief financial officer Frédérick Duguet said. “Being able to maximize the long-term value of our IPs while at the same time maintaining solid financial targets highlights the increasing recurring nature of our revenues, the strength of our portfolio of franchises, confidence in our holiday season release slate, and current supportive industry dynamics.” If you’ll allow me to translate that — Duguet is saying that Ubisoft is making a lot of extra cash right now due to the pandemic. People are turning to games for safe, at-home entertainment. And this has led to a surge in revenue for the publisher’s ongoing live-service games like Rainbow Six: Siege. But it’s also led to an increase in sales for catalog releases like Assassin’s Creed: Odyssey.
People are also buying more games digitally. This increases the profit margin of each game sold, which is yet another example of the trends moving favorably for gaming publishers.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! This enables Ubisoft to delay games without taking a major hit.
Ubisoft still has Watch Dogs: Legion, Assassin’s Creed: Valhalla, and more coming before the end of March 2021.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
