Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Salesforce in talks to acquire Slack Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Slack logo at Slush 2018 conference in Helsinki, Finland Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
( Reuters ) — Cloud-based software company Salesforce.com is in talks to acquire workplace messaging app Slack as it seeks to expand its offerings to businesses, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.
Salesforce’s bid comes as Slack struggles to fully capitalize on the switch to remote working during the COVID-19 pandemic in the face of fierce competition from Microsoft’s Teams and other workplace apps.
Slack shares ended trading on Tuesday at $29.57, well below the $42 high they reached on their first day of trading last year.
Salesforce sees the potential acquisition as a logical extension of its enterprise offerings , the sources said. The price it is offering for Slack was not disclosed, though one of the sources said Salesforce would pay cash for the deal, rather than using its stock as currency.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! If the negotiations conclude successfully, a deal could be announced before Slack reports quarterly earnings on December 9, one of the sources added.
Neither Slack nor Salesforce responded to requests for comment.
Slack shares jumped 24% to $36.58, giving the company a market capitalization of $21 billion, while Salesforce fell 2.7% after the Wall Street Journal first reported that the two companies had held deal talks.
Slack has benefited from companies relying more on information technology systems to keep their workers connected during the pandemic.
Its app has been installed about 12.6 million times so far this year, up approximately 50% from the same period in 2019, according to analytics firm Sensor Tower.
But the economic fallout of the pandemic has forced Slack to give discounts and payment concessions to many of its customers who have had to make cost cuts.
Seeking to save money, some companies have also been switching to Teams, which comes with many of Microsoft’s office software packages.
“I think Microsoft Teams has been able to capitalize on the opportunity better than Slack, partly because they give it away for free as a bundle,” said Rishi Jaluria, an analyst at research firm DA Davidson and Co.
“Now Slack realizes that they might be able to get greater penetration as part of a larger company.” Slack’s billing growth, a key indicator of future revenue, slowed in the three months leading up to the end of July.
Salesforce meanwhile has been thriving financially during the pandemic. It raised its annual revenue forecast in August as the pandemic spurred demand for its online business software that supports remote work and commerce.
Salesforce has been beefing up its cloud business through acquisitions and had spent more than $16 billion last year to fend off competition from rivals such as Oracle and German competitor SAP.
( Reporting Greg Roumeliotis and Krystal Hu in New York, additional reporting by Subrat Patnaik and Eva Mathews in Bengaluru. Editing by Arun Koyyur and Jan Harvey.
) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
