Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Deals Get a lifetime of Rosetta Stone and more on sale for Black Friday Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
While everyone is pleased with the news of vaccines and other promising treatments in the fight against COVID-19, the reality is that some changes we’ve all undergone the past year will likely live on indefinitely.
So while we’d like to think that masks and social distancing will be a thing of the past as soon as everyone gets inoculated, the reality is that those measures will likely remain a presence for some time to come.
While that means physical precautions continue, that also means our pursuit to better spend our alone time should continue as well. The training in The Social Distancing Lifetime Subscription ft. Rosetta Stone package should not only help broaden your mind, but it might even help put you in touch with the rest of the world during this isolating time.
The star of this collection is Rosetta Stone , one of the biggest and brightest names in online language learning. In fact, it really doesn’t get any bigger than the system that won PCMag’s Editors’ Choice Award for Best Language-Learning Software five years in a row.
Rosetta Stone’s approach: immersion. Just like real life trips abroad, Rosetta Stone makes their digital education like an online version of that immersive experience. Across all 24 of the languages they offer, Rosetta Stone’s interactive lessons help students understand vocabulary, grammar, and written rules for your new language naturally.
Once you’re starting to speak in your new tongue, that’s when the TruAccent speech recognition technology kicks in, analyzing your speech and offering an instant assessment of what you’re doing well and what still needs improvement.
As you sharpen up your language skills, you can also read up on that culture — and pretty much everything else — with a lifetime subscription to the 12min Premium Micro Book Library.
 The editors at 12min have condensed hundreds of non-fiction best-sellers and other important texts down to their cores, extracting key takeaways and presenting that work to you in just 12 minutes. Whether it’s in text or audio form, you can download any book in the 12min library and take it all in whenever you have a short pause in your day.
And if you’re going to be online, you better be protected — so that’s why you need a lifetime of KeepSolid VPN Unlimited coverage. KeepSolid has long been an elite VPN service provider, now with more than 10 million customers worldwide. Through their heavily shielded and encrypted web connection, you can surf the web and go anywhere online with complete anonymity. Your IP address and all identifying details about you stay hidden and keep secure with any online crooks or cyber snoops. Thanks to no speed or bandwidth limits, you can also enjoy ultra-fast connections, even to geo-restricted content like streaming services blocked in certain parts of the world.
To get all three services for life would usually cost nearly $750, but with this package, you can get it all for only $189. Then use the coupon code GETSOCIAL10 during checkout for an additional 10 percent off.
Prices subject to change.
Do you have your stay-at-home essentials? Here are some you may have missed.
VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
 Prices subject to change.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
