Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Deals Nine Black Friday deals on professional software and eLearning Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Everywhere you look, Black Friday deals are falling out of the sky. We’re doing all we can to gather up as many of the best offers as we can find and put them in front of you now before it’s too late.
Unfortunately, most of these big savings will be gone after just a limited time. But for all the software, apps and learning packages included below, you can earn an extra 40 or even 70 percent off your final total by adding the promo codes below while checking out with your purchase.
The Complete SEO and Digital Mega Marketing Bundle If you want to understand how to boost web traffic and turn your brand into a digital powerhouse, this 15-course collection can make it happen. With more than 90 hours of training, these courses explain copywriting, affiliate marketing, email campaigns, Facebook advertising, and more. You’ll even learn how to use Snapchat to your business advantage.
Get The Complete SEO and Digital Mega Marketing Bundle for $14.70 (Reg. $2,330) with promo code BFSAVE70.
XSplit VCam: Lifetime Subscription With XSplit, you can instantly replace the backgrounds in your webcam videos, creating a professional-level effect without expensive green screens or complicated lighting arrays. XSplit also works with all the big live streaming services to make your podcasts, vlogs, game streaming, talk shows, video calls and more feel a lot more professional.
Get the XSplit VCam: Lifetime Subscription for $11.99 (Reg. $49) with promo code BFSAVE40.
Whizlabs Online Certifications: Lifetime Membership There’s always room to learn more — and this access to the entire archive of Whizlabs’ vast online certification coursework can unlock it all. Whizlabs has helped more than 3 million professionals grasp subjects like cloud computing, Java, big data, project management, Agile, Linux, CCNA, and digital marketing.
Get the Whizlabs Online Certifications: Lifetime Membership for $39.99 (Reg. $4,499) with promo code BFSAVE70.
Mashvisor: Lifetime Subscription Mashvisor pulls together all the available real estate insider data on for-sale properties into one place, then assesses which ones could offer the biggest returns as rental or Airbnb units. Legwork that used to take investors months to dig up can be found in under 15 minutes with Mashvisor.
Get the Mashvisor: Lifetime Subscription for $23.99 (Reg. $1,499) with promo code BFSAVE40.
The Wall Street Survival and Stock Trading Guide Bundle Over eight courses, you’ll truly get inside how Wall Street works and find the methods for creating profit through day trading. After this training, even beginners will know how to start trading stocks, handling technical analysis, understanding chart indicators, even the psychology of trading that can help you make the smartest possible decisions.
Get The Wall Street Survival and Stock Trading Guide Bundle for $9 (Reg. $1,600) with promo code BFSAVE70.
Big Think Edge Expert-Taught Lectures: Lifetime Subscription Big Think Edge gets some of the world’s greatest experts to talk about how they reached the pinnacle of their craft in this amazing video series. You can explore video lessons from more than 150 luminaries, including Malcolm Gladwell, Elon Musk, and Arianna Huffington. Everyone from Ivy League professors to entrepreneurs to Nobel Prize winners explain emotional intelligence, problem-solving, critical thinking and more to help you fuel your personal and professional growth.
Get the Big Think Edge Expert-Taught Lectures: Lifetime Subscription for $48 (Reg. $250) with promo code BFSAVE70.
Haroun Education Ventures MBA Degree Program Over more than 400 hours, award-winning MBA professor Chris Haroun takes you to business school…only better. This venture capitalist and Goldman Sachs veteran offers up insight into everything those big academic programs skip, like how to network, how to find customers, how to write business documents, and how to start and grow a business.
Get the Haroun Education Ventures MBA Degree Program for $119.70 (Reg. $499) with promo code BFSAVE70.
WhiteSmoke Grammar Checker: Lifetime Subscription Don’t let the grammar cops catch up with you. WhiteSmoke can help get your writing into top-notch shape, checking your work for any spelling, punctuation and style mistakes that you definitely don’t want spilling into a work email or formal document. It even translates into over 50 languages.
Get the WhiteSmoke Grammar Checker: Lifetime Subscription for $23.99 (Reg. $600) with promo code BFSAVE40.
Knowable Audio Learning Platform: Lifetime Subscription You can learn life-changing skills in these audio courses led by over 200 leading experts in their field. One of Google Play’s “New Apps We Love,” Knowable’s roster of visionaries make learning how to advance at work, boost your productivity, or improve your relationships as easy as binging a podcast. New courses are added every week in this mobile-friendly, audio-first learning that you can take with you anywhere.
Get the Knowable Audio Learning Platform: Lifetime Subscription for $35.99 (Reg. $249) with promo code BFSAVE40.
Prices subject to change.
Do you have your stay-at-home essentials? Here are some you may have missed.
VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
 Prices subject to change.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
