Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Increase your chances for business success with insights from winning entrepreneurs Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Undoubtedly you have heard the staggering statistics before. About 1 in 5 start-up businesses fail within the first year. Only about 25 percent of them make it past the 15-year mark. They, of course, don’t set out to fail. It seems, however, that often the dreams are bigger than the reality, and sometimes they just, as the saying goes, bite off more than they can chew. Perhaps with a little more guidance, they could have gone farther on the road to success. It’s too late for them, but not for you.
Starter Story Premium could be just the guide you are looking for to give you the right tools and advice in starting your own business.
Most often, businesses fail not because of what we do as new entrepreneurs, but because of what we don’t do. If we don’t have a clear vision as to where we want to take our business, there is no path to follow. If we try to be all things to all people, we set ourselves up for disappointment. If we lack a business plan or a marketing plan, we will lose out on what is needed to succeed, potentially missing the mark on both short- and long-term objectives. All this to say that there is a lot more that goes into ensuring your business thrives than just a great idea.
Fortunately, there are several that have gone before you that have run successful businesses and are more than happy to share their tips and tricks. This Starter Story Premium Plan gives you unlimited access to over 3,500 founder case studies which you can scrutinize, dissect, and analyze at your leisure. Winning entrepreneurs will give you insights as to how they got started, how they grow, and how they run their businesses today. With a comprehensive database of more than 200 marketing tactics, you pick the ones that suit your budget and style and start growing your business. And if you don’t know exactly what you want your business to be, although you do know you want to go down the entrepreneur path, Starter Story offers over 5,000 business ideas and data points.
This review sums it up nicely: “This is an awesome database of startup ideas, founder interviews, and a whole lot more. Definitely worth a purchase if you have hopes of starting your own business and need inspiration!” Normally valued at over $1,600, a lifetime subscription to Starter Story can be yours for only $99.99.
 That’s a small price to pay for a virtual mentor right inside your computer.
VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
 Prices subject to change.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
