The Verge homepage The Verge homepage The Verge The Verge logo.
/ Tech / Reviews / Science / Entertainment / More Menu Expand Tech The latest tech news about the world's best (and sometimes worst) hardware, apps, and much more. From top companies like Google and Apple to tiny startups vying for your attention, Verge Tech has the latest in what matters in technology daily.
Featured stories Using your iPhone to start your car is about to get a lot easier Digital keys are getting more popular, but now, a new working group chaired by Apple is going to figure out how to make sure it adheres to safe standards.
| Comments The Analogue Pocket now comes in a rainbow of classic Game Boy colors Damn, those are pretty.
| Comments PC Gaming PC Gaming A hefty stable Steam Deck update gives the Dock a brand-new feature | Comments Google Pixel Google Pixel Do Pixel 8 AI-edited photos have to be labeled as synthetic content on YouTube? YouTube is still figuring it out.
| Comments External Link Vice Motherboard reported yesterday that Cruise’s email summary of the accident said the car “hard-braked but was unable to stop” before hitting a pedestrian. But it didn’t mention that the car then pulled over, dragging the person with it.
California’s DMV revoked the company’s self-driving license.
 Cruise then halted robotaxi operation , later expanded the pause to include supervised and manually-driven Cruise trips for safety review.
[vice] Advertisement Advertisement Advertiser Content Labor Labor SAG-AFTRA’s new contract hinges on studios acting responsibly with AI | Comments External Link The Information has the story.
 The outlet says Research director Jakub Pachocki, AI risk evaluation head Aleksander Madry, and longtime researcher Szymon Sidor resigned following Sam Altman’s surprise firing yesterday.
The article notes that Pachocki and Sidor had worked with Greg Brockman (who also left the company yesterday ) on OpenAI’s Dota 2-playing AI bot , while Madry joined the company in May 2023, later forming a team to mitigate AI risks.
[The Information] Space Space SpaceX’s second Starship flight test ends in an explosion minutes after launch and | Comments Youtube From the SpaceX livestream , the team there said about 15 minutes into the 8AM ET launch that Starship’s signal had disappeared, and it appears the craft’s flight termination system ended its journey soon after the planned engine shutdown.
The ship made it much farther along than the previous attempt earlier this year.
Twitter SpaceX’s rocket launched just after 8AM CT. The rocket is currently heading towards space. The booster exploded seconds after the stage separation, but Starship itself continued.
Former OpenAI president and chair Greg Brockman’s post on X tells his version of the events that pushed Sam Altman out of OpenAI (Altman reshared the post, and put up a message that today “has been sorta like reading your own eulogy while you’re still alive”).
According to Brockman, OpenAI Chief Scientist and board member Ilya Sutskever texted Altman on Thursday night asking to talk at noon on Friday (November 17th). At noon, on a Google Meet call with Sutskever, as well as non-employee board members Adam D’Angelo, Tasha McCauley, and Helen Toner, “Ilya told Sam he was being fired and that the news was going out very soon.” Within minutes, Sutskever invited Brockman to a Google Meet call where he was informed of his removal from the board “...and that Sam had been fired. Around the same time, OpenAI published a blog post.
” Command Line Command Line What happened to Sam Altman? | Comments Tech Tech Turmoil at OpenAI: after firing Sam Altman, what’s next for the home of ChatGPT? | Comments Gaming Gaming Sony announces The Last of Us Part II remaster for PS5 | Comments Tech Tech OpenAI co-founder Greg Brockman is leaving, too | Comments Twitter - X Twitter - X Apple pulls its ads from X after Musk’s antisemitic posts | Comments External Link Meta VP of engineering Don Block has been leading the operating system development for its augmented reality glasses project, codenamed Nazare , planned for release in 2024. Now Reuters reports the former Microsoft engineer is stepping down, citing a Meta spokesperson saying it was for personal reasons and that the upcoming product roadmap will not be affected.
[Reuters] Microsoft says it’s using GPT-4 to garner the “most pertinent insights” from webpages and write summaries beneath Bing search results. You won’t see these summaries beneath every search result, but you can check which ones are AI-generated by clicking the little arrow next to the result’s URL. If the description is written by AI, it’ll say “AI-Generated Caption.” Twitter The former CEO was suddenly fired by OpenAI’s board on Friday, and in a post on X, he gave no details on what happened but said he’ll “have more to say about what’s next later.” Hot Pod Hot Pod Ben Shapiro and the conservative podcasters after his throne | Comments Tech Tech Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI and | Comments External Link Denis Villeneuve’s Dune: Part Two was one of the handful of upcoming Warner Bros. releases whose premiere dates were delayed in response to the the now-concluded labor strikes.
But now that the industry’s ramping back up, Warner Bros. is getting a jump on things by moving the film’s premiere from March 15th to March 1st.
[Deadline] External Link The Summoner Names players use in League of Legends and Teamfight Tactics are being dropped in favor of Riot IDs on November 20th. Riot has a post detailing what’s going on and some changes for Riot IDs as a whole — including that you’ll be able to change your ID name every 90 days for free, which should address some criticisms from the original plan.
[Riot Games] Axios reports that Mustard is now a “partner” at the company, AGBO, but it’s unclear exactly what he’ll be doing in the role. Mustard announced he was retiring from Epic Games in September.
After bringing background removal to Paint , now Microsoft is rolling out the capability to Windows Photos. The feature is only available to Insiders for now, but it looks equally as handy as the one in Paint. You can remove a photo’s background with just a click and then even replace it with a solid color.
Gaming Gaming Half-Life gets a big update for its 25th anniversary | Comments The Verge’s guide to Black Friday 2023 We’re here to help you make the most of what’s quickly become a monthlong celebration of deals and discounts.
| Comments Tech Tech It’s clearly time: all the news about the transparent tech renaissance | Comments Deals Deals Filed under: The Verge’s guide to Black Friday 2023 Sonos speakers and soundbars are up to 25 percent off ahead of Black Friday | Comments Deals Deals Filed under: The Verge’s guide to Black Friday 2023 The best early Black Friday tech deals you can shop right now 1 more | Comments Deals Deals Filed under: The Verge’s guide to Black Friday 2023 The best Black Friday deals on headphones and earbuds | Comments Gadgets Gadgets Screens are good, actually | Comments Is it the end of the green bubble ? Who knows! Probably not. Did Nothing make this happen ? LOL, no. We dug into all things RCS and the future of messaging, before talking about Bing, the Windows app, wearable graphs, and whatever the Playstation Portal is. At the end of the day, we’re all just bubbles, you know what I mean? External Link In a memo sent to employees, Daniel Rausch, the vice president of the Alexa and Fire TV team, says Amazon is eliminating “several hundred roles” as the company looks to build up efforts in AI: As we continue to invent, we’re shifting some of our efforts to better align with our business priorities, and what we know matters most to customers — which includes maximizing our resources and efforts focused on generative AI. These shifts are leading us to discontinue some initiatives, which is resulting in several hundred roles being eliminated.
[GeekWire] Reviews This is the keyboard that will convert you to the low-profile life Dan Seifert Nov 17 Fitbit Charge 6 review: practically a Pixel band Victoria Song Nov 16 Gaming brands are learning the right lessons from enthusiast mechanical keyboards Jon Porter Nov 14 The best smart holiday string lights Jennifer Pattison Tuohy Nov 14 Elon Musk Elon Musk The entire story of Twitter / X under Elon Musk | Comments Youtube Do you love the sound of the peel once you’ve built a PC? Well, Lian Li is providing a triple glass peel with its latest O11 Vision case, with tempered glass on the front, top, and left side. This beautiful fish tank case is all built on Lian Li’s dual chamber design, much like the rest of the popular O11 series. You can preorder the $140 case right now and it arrives at retailers later this month.
External Link An upcoming change spotted by TheSPAndroid shows a big “unsubscribe” button at the very top of promotional emails. Hopefully, that means no more scrolling to the bottom of lengthy spam messages just to unsubscribe.
[The SP Android] Interview Interview The creators of Monarch: Legacy of Monsters aren’t just trying to make a Godzilla spinoff show | Comments Deals Deals The Verge’s 2023 holiday gift guide for moms | Comments Twitter The EU Court of Justice confirmed that Apple has joined Meta and ByteDance in appealing its designation under the tough new rules. The European Commission labeled three of Apple’s products as “core platform services” in September.
It’s not been officially confirmed which of these Apple is contesting, but last week, Bloomberg reported that its filings would concern the App Store and iMessage.
Pagination More Stories Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI Windows is now an app for iPhones, iPads, Macs, and PCs Screens are good, actually Apple pulls its ads from X after Musk’s antisemitic posts Apple says iPhones will support RCS in 2024 Installer / A weekly newsletter about the best and Verge-iest stuff you should know about.
Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell Or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status How We Rate and Review Products Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement The Verge is a vox media network Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2023 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
