Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AI Weekly: Announcing our ‘AI and the future of health care’ special issue Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Artificial intelligence and health care both deal heavily with issues of complexity, efficacy, and societal impact. All of that is multiplied when the two intersect. As health care providers and vendors work to use AI and data to improve patient care, health outcomes, medical research, and more, they face what are now standard AI challenges. Data is difficult and messy. Machine learning models struggle with bias and accuracy. And ethical challenges abound. But there’s a heightened need to solve these problems when they’re couched within the daily life-and-death context of health care.
Then, in the midst of the AI’s growth in health care, the pandemic hit, challenging old ways of doing things and pushing systems to their breaking points. In our upcoming special issue, “ AI and the future of health care ,” we examine how providers and vendors are tackling the challenges of this extraordinary time.
The biggest hurdle has to do with data. Health care produces massive amounts of data, from electronic health records (EHR) to imaging to information on hospital bed capacity. There’s enormous promise in using that data to create AI models that can improve care and even help cure diseases, but there are barriers to that progress. Privacy concerns top the list, but worldwide health care data also needs standardization. There are still too many errors in this data, and the medical community must address persisting biases before they become even more entrenched.
When humans rely on AI to help them make clinical decisions like injury or disease diagnoses, they also have to be aware of their own biases. Because bias exists in the data AI models are built upon, practitioners have to be careful not to fall into the trap of automation bias, relying too much on model output to make decisions. It’s a delicate balance with profound impacts on human health and life.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The pandemic has also challenged the practical day-to-day functions of health care systems. As COVID-19 cases threaten to overwhelm hospitals and patients and doctors risk infection during in-person visits, providers are figuring out how to deliver patient care remotely. With more doctors shifting to telemedicine, chatbots and other tools are helping relieve some of the burden and allowing patients to access care from the safety of their own homes.
For particularly vulnerable populations, like senior citizens, remote care may be necessary, especially if they’re in locked-down residential facilities or can’t easily get to their doctor. The technologies involved in monitoring such patients include wearables that track vitals and even special wireless tech that offers no-touch, personalized biometric tracking.
These are sea changes in health care, and because of the pandemic, they’re coming faster than anyone expected. But a certain optimism persists — a sense that despite unprecedented challenges to the medical field, careful and responsible use of AI can enable permanent, positive changes in the health care system. The astonishing speed with which researchers developed a working COVID-19 vaccine offers ample evidence of the way necessity spurs medical innovation. The best of the technologies, tools, and techniques that health care providers are employing now could soon become standard and lead to more democratized, less expensive, and overall better health care.
You can get this special issue delivered straight to your inbox next week by signing up here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
