Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cloud data analytics service Phocas raises $34 million to grow AI, global footprint Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Phocas Software ‘s cloud data analytics tools might be best known in Australia, where they’re used by Thermo Fisher Scientific , Fiskars Royal Doulton, and Burson Automotive to streamline employee access to key financial data, but the company is planning to become more aggressive globally in 2021. Today, Phocas announced that it raised $34 million to bolster its AI capabilities and reach new customers across the world, while expanding its data tools to reach new verticals.
With the new capital, Phocas plans to “supercharge” its outreach to American and UK companies while increasing its tools’ use of AI to extract value from data. Developed to enable businesses to run operations without cross-referencing spreadsheets, Phocas’ tools enable employees to easily track KPIs and similar metrics specific to their roles, using industry-customized data reports that can be accessed from corporate or home offices.
Phocas’ expansion is significant to technical decision makers because it reflects growing competition in and segmentation of the enterprise data technology arena. The company’s software-as-a-service (SaaS) data analytics tools have historically targeted medium-size enterprises rather than small or large businesses, notably including medical, scientific, manufacturing, and automotive companies in Australia, the United States, and the United Kingdom. Over 1,900 “mid-market” customers already use Phocas, including American Metal Supply and Dixie Plywood in the U.S. and various retail, hospitality, and equipment vendors in the UK; these types of businesses will continue to be Phocas’ focus, but it will also use its new funding to expand to unspecified new industries.
The company’s core business intelligence tools are largely made for sales, purchasing, finance, and executive teams, enabling daily rather than monthly tracking of data across an enterprise. With support for over 20 global ERP partners — notably including Epicor — Phocas’ cloud-based tool can connect to enterprise ERP, CRM, and AP/AR systems, as well as other data sources.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Australia’s Ellerston Capital led the funding round with a $27 million equity investment, while earlier investor OneVentures added $7 million in equity financing, increasing its stake after four years to accelerate Phocas’ place in the SaaS market. The company continues to be led by cofounder and CEO Myles Glashier.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
