Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Salesforce posts record sales, but full-year profit forecast disappoints Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Salesforce Tower, September 22, 2020 in New York City.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
( Reuters ) — Salesforce on Thursday forecast full-year profit that was below market expectations, sending shares of the online software company down 3.9% in extended trading.
Salesforce’s latest and biggest acquisition of workspace messaging company Slack in a $27.7 billion deal in December is seen as expensive by Wall Street analysts, even though there are long-term benefits.
“Weak FY22 EPS guidance suggests margin expansion is likely to be muted, even adjusting for the acquisition of Slack,” Needham & Co analyst Scott Berg said.
The largest provider of customer relationship management software forecast full-year adjusted earnings per share of between $3.39 and $3.41, below estimates of $3.49 per share.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! While emerging virus strains pose a new hurdle to business spending, Salesforce is also facing stiff competition from Microsoft, which is ramping up its cloud-based offerings.
Revenue in the quarter ended January 31 rose to $5.82 billion from $4.85 billion a year earlier, driven by increased demand for its cloud-based software.
Analysts on average expected revenue to be $5.68 billion, according to IBES data from Refinitiv.
The company raised its fiscal 2022 revenue forecast slightly to between $25.65 billion and $25.75 billion, above analysts’ average estimate of $25.42 billion.
Excluding items, the company earned $1.04 per share, beating estimates of 75 cents.
( Reporting by Chavi Mehta in Bengaluru, editing by Arun Koyyur.
) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
