Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Pokémon Diamond and Pearl remakes are coming to Switch Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Today’s Pokémon Presents event revealed that remakes of Pokémon Diamond and Pearl are on their way to Switch.
 They are called Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, and they’re coming out late this year.
These games first debuted for the Nintendo DS in 2006 in Japan and in 2007 in the U.S. These are the fourth major entries in the franchise following Red/Blue, Gold/Silver, and Ruby/Sapphire. Its predecessors already had their remakes. Heck, Gen 1 has had two remakes.
Now it’s Gen 4 turns. Pokémon already has a strong presence on Switch, including the aforementioned Let’s Go Pikachu and Let’s Go Eevee from 2018, which reimagined the original Pokémon adventure. Then the Gen 8 games, Pokémon Sword and Shield , came out in 2019. They became huge hits, having sold over 20 million copies combined.
Diamond and Pearl take place in the Sinnoh region, which is based off of the Japanese island of Hokkaidō. It’s a typical Pokémon adventure, with the player starting their journey by picking one of three starting Pokémon and then going on a quest to defeat eight gym leaders.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: Starters! It does have Piplup , however, as one of those three starters, so Diamond And Pearl rule.
These remakes will help mark the franchise’s 25th anniversary, with the series starting on February 27, 1996.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
