Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Uniphore nabs $140 million for automated analysis of voice and video calls Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Uniphore , an AI-powered platform that helps businesses understand, analyze, and automate their voice-based customer service, has raised $140 million in a series D round of funding.
The company said it plans to use the investment to expand its existing conversational AI and machine learning technologies deeper into the enterprise, with a particular focus on video-based applications. The genesis for this expansion actually dates back a couple of months to its acquisition of Emotion Research Lab, a Spanish startup that determines emotion and engagement levels through video-based interactions by tracking facial expressions and eye movement.
Founded out of India in 2008, Uniphore offers a platform built around four core services: U-Self-Serve , designed to give businesses quick setup access to a conversational AI assistant; U-Analyze , which uses natural language processing (NLP) to glean insights and generate analytics from customer conversations; U-Trust , an automated voice authentication tool that helps companies verify an agent’s identity in the remote-working world; and U-Assist , which serves up real-time call transcriptions and in-call alerts.
Beyond customer service Uniphore, which opened a new U.S. HQ in Palo Alto in 2019, had previously raised $81 million and claims a roster of major enterprise clients, including BNP Paribas. Its latest investment was led by Sorenson Capital Partners, with participation from notable enterprise backers such as Cisco Investments.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! By adding video to its existing automated voice monitoring smarts, Uniphore is essentially looking beyond the customer service realm and into sales, marketing, and HR, among other business verticals. It’s focused anywhere companies may come face to face with people over video, which is particularly pertinent as the world has had to rapidly embrace remote work.
In addition to expanding into video-based applications, Uniphore said it will invest in other areas around trust, security, and robotic process automation (RPA). This comes shortly after it acquired an exclusive third-party RPA license from NTT Data.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
