Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Auditoria raises $15.5M to expand AI platform automating repetitive accounting tasks Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Auditoria , a startup offering AI-driven automation products for corporate finance teams, today announced that it raised $15.5 million in series A funding. Cofounder and CEO Rohit Gupta says that the proceeds will shore up Auditoria’s investments in data science and the expansion of its sales, marketing, and customer success teams. .
It’s estimated that accountants lose thousands of hours to repetitive tasks, follow-ups, error checking, and data entry. But studies show that the vast majority of these workloads can be automated. That may be why over 50% of respondents in a survey conducted by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants said they anticipate the development of automated and intelligent systems will have an impact on finance over the next 30 years.
Auditoria, which was founded in 2019, offers software that aims to streamline collections and procurement processes through the use of AI. A combination of machine learning, computer vision, robotic process automation, optical character recognition, and natural language processing enable Auditoria’s platform to augment the work of human accountants. The company claims it can handle certain tax obligations and expense management as well as vendor onboarding via auditable journal entries.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Auditoria’s workflow orchestration engine draws on data from clients’ email inboxes, apps, and other financial systems of record, leveraging algorithms to bring in human experts where necessary. Auditoria says its software can communicate with stakeholders using natural language while monitoring high-risk accounts with incentives and promotions for clients. Beyond this, Auditoria can respond to payment inquiries, capture supplier data, and automate the forecasting of financial key [performance indicators (KPIs).
While 25-employee Auditoria competes with Botkeeper and Zeni in an accounting software market projected to be worth $19.59 billion by 2026, according to Mordor Intelligence, the company is among the first that’s enterprise resource planning-centric in Gupta’s mind. He says that more than 200 organizations are using Auditoria’s tools.
“Despite launching out of stealth during the pandemic, Auditoria has seen incredible growth and traction,” Gupta said. “The team’s focused efforts to provide a purpose-built solution for corporate finance struck a chord with the forward-looking, next-gen finance executives looking to adopt software to drive greater efficiencies and increase resiliency across the back office.” Brian Ascher, partner at investor Venrock, added, “Finance operations automation is the future for corporate finance. We have been on the hunt to invest in the right team with the experience and innovative technology necessary to transform corporate finance, and we have found that in Auditoria. We envision a day when every global finance team is using Auditoria to streamline and automate back-office operations.” Venrock led Santa Clara, California-based Auditoria’s oversubscribed round announced today, which saw participation from Workday Ventures and existing investors including B Capital Group, Engineering Capital, Firebolt Ventures, and Neotribe Ventures.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
