Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Docebo Launches Multi-Product Learning Suite to Address Challenges Across Entire Learning Lifecycle Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn TORONTO–(BUSINESS WIRE)–March 30, 2021– Leading AI-powered learning platform, Docebo Inc. (“Docebo”) ( Nasdaq:DCBO; TSX:DCBO ), announced today the launch of a multi-product learning technology suite.
Previously, Docebo has focused on solving the problem of how organizations deliver training with its flagship learning management system (LMS). With the launch of Docebo Learning Suite, Docebo will go beyond content delivery and address challenges across the entire learning lifecycle, from content creation and management to measuring learning impact and key business drivers.
The launch of Docebo Learning Suite coincides with the launch of Docebo Shape, a content creation product built on AI. Developed internally, Docebo Shape enables businesses to bring more internal experts into their elearning content strategy by leveraging AI to create engaging learning content in minutes.
Including Docebo Shape, the core products that come together to transform the company’s offering into a cohesive learning suite include: Docebo Learn LMS, a top-rated Learning Management System that has been used by more than 2,000 customers; Docebo Shape, a content creation product that uses AI to create elearning content in minutes; Docebo Content, a library of thousands of off-the-shelf, mobile-ready learning courses, and; Docebo Learning Impact, a data-driven tool that allows users to measure the effectiveness of their learning programs on their people and improve ROI.
“Our vision is to build a learning suite for the future that addresses every enterprise learning requirement so our customers have a one-stop shop for all their learning needs,” said Docebo’s Chief Executive Officer, Claudio Erba. “Today’s announcement is the result of both a previous acquisition and internal R&D, and it’s a testament to the innovation that exists in Docebo’s DNA.” To learn more about Docebo’s Enterprise Learning Suite, visit www.docebo.com.
About Docebo Docebo is redefining the way enterprises leverage technology to create content, deliver training, and understand the business impact of their learning experiences. With Docebo’s multi-product learning suite, enterprises around the world are equipped to tackle any learning challenge and create a true learning culture within their organization.
Forward-Looking Information This press release may contain “forward-looking information” and “forward-looking statements” (collectively, “forward-looking information”) within the meaning of applicable securities laws, including, without limitation, statements regarding: Company’s business; future business strategy; the launch of new products and features; the learning management industry; our growth rates and growth strategies; addressable markets for our solutions; the achievement of advances in and expansion of our platform; expectations regarding our revenue and the revenue generation potential of our platform and other products; our business plans and strategies; and our competitive position in our industry.
This forward-looking information is based on our opinions, estimates and assumptions that, while considered by the Company to be appropriate and reasonable as of the date of this press release, are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking information, including, without limitation: risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on Docebo, economic conditions, and global markets; and other unforeseen events, developments, or factors causing any of the aforesaid expectations, assumptions, and other factors ultimately being inaccurate or irrelevant, and those factors discussed in greater detail under the “Risk Factors” section of our Annual Information Form for the year ended December 31, 2020, available under our profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com , and should be considered carefully by prospective investors.
If any of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if the opinions, estimates or assumptions underlying the forward-looking information prove incorrect, actual results or future events might vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking information. Although we have attempted to identify important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking information, there may be other risk factors not presently known to us or that we presently believe are not material that could also cause actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking information. There can be no assurance that such information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such information. No forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future results. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking information, which speaks only as of the date made. The forward-looking information contained in this press release represents our expectations as of the date specified herein, and are subject to change after such date. However, we disclaim any intention or obligation or undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking information whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required under applicable securities laws.
All of the forward-looking information contained in this press release is expressly qualified by the foregoing cautionary statements.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20210330005315/en/ Press: Nesh Pillay Director of PR and Communications press@docebo.com Investors: Dennis Fong Investor Relations investors@docebo.com VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
