Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Pinterest open-sources big data analytics tool Querybook Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Pinterest headquarters in San Francisco.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Pinterest today open-sourced Querybook, a data management solution for enterprise-scale remote engineering collaboration. The company says the tool, which it uses internally, can help engineers compose queries, create analyses, and collaborate with one another via a notebook interface.
Querybook started in 2017 as an intern project at Pinterest. The development team early on decided on a document-like interface where users could write queries and analyses in one place, with collocated metadata and the simplicity of a note-taking app. Released internally in March 2018, Querybook became the go-to solution for big data analytics at Pinterest. It now averages 500 daily active users and 7,000 daily query runs.
“With Querybook, Pinterest engineers have brought together the power of metadata with the simplicity of a note-taking app for a better querying interface, where teams can compose queries and write analyses all in one place,” a spokesperson told VentureBeat. “Querybook can be set up and deployed in minutes.” Every query executed on Querybook gets analyzed to extract metadata like referenced tables and query runners. Querybook uses this information to automatically update its data schema and search ranking, as well as to show a table’s frequent users and query examples. The more queries in Querybook, the better documented the tables become.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Querybook also features an admin interface that lets companies configure query engines, table metadata ingestion, and access permissions. From this interface, admins can make live Querybook changes without going through code or config files. And they can create visualizations, including lines, bars, stacked areas, pies, donuts, scatter charts, and table charts.
“The common starting point for any analysis at Pinterest is an ad-hoc query that gets executed on the internal Hadoop or Presto cluster. To continuously make these improvements, especially in an increasingly remote environment, it’s more important than ever for teams to be able to compose queries, create analyses, and collaborate with one another,” Pinterest wrote in a blog post. “We built Querybook to provide a responsive and simple web user interface for such analysis so data scientists, product managers, and engineers can discover the right data, compose their queries, and share their findings.” Pinterest previously open-sourced Teletraan , a tool that can deploy code onto virtual machines, such as those available from public cloud Amazon Web Services. Prior to this, the company released Terrapin , software designed to more efficiently push data out of the Hadoop open source big data software and make it available for other systems to use.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
