Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Deals Python is THE coding language of this programming era. This package can help you master it.
Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Other programming languages may have been around longer or might have wider usage over time, but no coding discipline has been on a more torrid hot streak than Python.
With simplicity and versatility that’s made it a mainstay for both first-time coders as well as computer science pros, Python is the current default language for many critical programming projects now, recently topping TIOBE’s annual rankings of the world’s most popular coding language for the fourth straight year.
There’s a reason why anything and everything these days seems to be going through Python. With the training in The 2021 Premium Python Certification Bootcamp Bundle , users will quickly learn why.
This collection of 13 courses packed with over 40 hours of intensive Python training can guide novice Python users through the basics, from foundational Python syntax and commands up through its modern role as a baseline component in today’s data analysis as well as next-generation tech areas like machine learning and artificial intelligence.
Of course, there’s no easier way for starting coders to get familiar than with the 1-2 punch of Python for Absolute Beginners and All Ages and Python Language Fundamentals: Learn Python from Scratch.
 Across these two courses, learners start getting comfortable with the Python interfaces, exploring topics like arithmetic operators, strings, lists, and more, and tactics for improving your skills and boost your career growth with Python under your programming belt.
And for those who have prior non-Python coding experience, the Introduction to Python 3 Training course examines how Python works by relating it to disciplines used by other popular coding languages.
Next, coursework moves through learning about some of Python’s most enabling tools, like Django, which lets users even more rapidly get Python-created webpages and apps up and running. By creating your own photo filter editor like those used on Instagram and Snapchat, students get a true feel for everything Python has to offer a build.
The bundle even closes with courses in Ethical Hacking Using Python from A to Z and Artificial Intelligence (AI) in Python: An H2O Approach , which explore some of the most modern and far-reaching applications of Python happening today.
The 2021 Premium Python Certification Bootcamp Bundle is nearly $2,600 worth of intensive training, now on sale for a fraction of that cost, just $34.99 until this deal expires.
Prices subject to change.
VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
 Prices subject to change.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
