Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Analogue Pocket delay gives me more time to buy random handhelds from China Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Analogue Pocket preorders are here.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
I love that Analogue is delaying its Analogue Pocket handheld again. This is a good thing to me. It means that I can spend more time and money trying to fill the Game Boy-shaped hole in my heart with random handhelds I find on AliExpress.
Analogue announced today that the Pocket will not make its May release date. Instead, due to “the current global state of affairs,” the updated take on the Game Boy will release in October. If you’re wondering what global affairs Analogue is referring to, it specifically links to the semiconductor shortage and the ship that blocked the Suez Canal for a week.
The Analogue Pocket will launch for $200 — although preorders have already sold out once. It has a cartridge slot that supports Game Boy games, and it uses an FPGA processor to hardware-emulate Game Boy, Game Boy Color, Game Boy Advance, Game Gear, Neo Geo Pocket Color, and Atari Lynx games. Oh, and it has a 1,600-by-1,440 pixel display, which is exactly 10-times the resolution of the original Game Boy.
And I don’t even want it.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! I mean, who would need something like that when I’ve already ordered RK2020 and the Retroid Pocket 2 ? My Retroid Pocket 2 isn’t even here yet, and now I’m already looking at getting one of these ultratiny Funkey S portables that look like a shrunken GBA.
 Oh, and apparently Powkiddy, one of the many Chinese manufacturers responsible for these handhelds, is releasing a new device with a 5-inch screen in April.
 I’ll probably get that, too.
I think this is better. I’ll just keep buying handhelds instead of getting the one I really want. That’s more fun in the end. I’m not bitter.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
