Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cybersecurity firm started by ex-spies surges on London market debut Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
( Reuters ) — Darktrace , a cybersecurity company advised by former MI5 and CIA spymasters, leapt more than 40% on its market debut on Friday, delivering a boost to the London market after the spectacular flop of Deliveroo last month.
The company was priced at 250 pence in the initial public offering, giving it a valuation of just over half the original aim of $4 billion. But it rocketed to 352 pence when trading started, well above the 220-280 pence range set by its bankers when its roadshow began on Monday.
Darktrace uses AI to understand IT networks and then detect attacks by identifying unusual behaviour from within. Its advisory board includes a former director general of the British security service, Jonathan Evans, an ex-CIA chief information officer, Alan Wade, and former UK interior minister Amber Rudd.
“Today is just the beginning,” Chief Executive Poppy Gustafsson said.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The loss-making company, which says it’s presently focused on growth rather than profits, was founded in the English university city of Cambridge in 2013. It is backed by entrepreneur Michael Lynch , who was on its board until 2018 and is still an adviser. He and his wife own stakes worth a total of 440 million pounds after the share debut.
Lynch is fighting a U.S. extradition request to face fraud charges related to the sale of Autonomy , a software company he founded and led, to American tech firm Hewlett-Packard.
He is also waiting for the verdict of a multi-billion dollar civil claim by HP at London’s High Court.
Darktrace detailed the risks related to Lynch in its registration documents, including potential liability in relation to allegations of money laundering made by U.S. prosecutors, although the company said the risk of the latter was low.
Lynch denies all the allegations in the cases. He declined to comment on Darktrace.
Lynch connection Darktrace’s Gustafsson, who like many of the senior management team previously worked at Autonomy, said investor sentiment was not affected by the Lynch association.
“Ultimately whilst Mike is a visionary technologists and was an early investor in Darktrace, he’s not involved in the day to day running of the business,” she told Reuters this month.
The Lynch connection was, though, enough to deter top-tier U.S. banks from pitching for roles on the IPO, sources have previously told Reuters. UBS was originally appointed as a global coordinator but then stepped down over compliance concerns related to the Autonomy saga, another separate source confirmed to Reuters.
UBS did not respond to a request for comment, while Gustafsson said UBS had their own issues, without elaborating.
Such big bank reticence opened the field for lesser-known names.
Jefferies, Berenberg and KKR Capital Markets, none of which has ever topped equity capital markets (ECM) league tables, were joint-global coordinators.
Jefferies placed ninth in Refinitiv’s first-quarter ECM league tables while Berenberg and KKR Capital Markets didn’t make it into the top 15.
Yet, they succeeded in winning over investors and restoring confidence in London after Deliveroo’s flop in an IPO that involved bulge bracket banks such as Goldman Sachs.
Spooked by Deliveroo CMC Markets chief market analyst Michael Hewson said Darktrace’s launch was a welcome boost for the London market.
“Given the sharp boost in initial trading there will inevitably be some criticism that the listing was priced too low,” he said. “However given what happened with Deliveroo maybe expectations were adjusted lower by a little too much.” Darktrace’s advanced technology is used by more than 4,700 companies and organisations, including intelligence services.
The tech company, whose revenue rose from $79.4 million to $199.1 million between 2018 and 2020 but is yet to make a profit, offered 66 million shares in the IPO, valued at 165 million pounds and representing 9.6% of the capital.
It raised gross proceeds of about 143.4 million pounds by selling new shares, excluding any over-allotment option, to accelerate product development and strengthen its balance sheet.
Other investors in the company included Talis Capital, Hoxton Ventures, Summit Partners, KKR, TenEleven Ventures, Insight Partners, Vitruvian and Balderton Capital.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
