Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Templafy: Today’s tech stacks aren’t built for tomorrow’s hybrid work Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Tech stacks aren’t built to support today’s — or tomorrow’s — enterprise employees’ needs. In a new survey commissioned by Templafy , a content enablement platform, 35% of employees switch between multiple applications at least 3-4 times per hour, interrupting their workflow, impacting efficiency, and leaving over a quarter (28%) of them exhausted.
Above: Your company introduced new tools meant to make you more productive, but you don’t feel more efficient.
If you felt your company suddenly had an influx of new tools meant to make you and your teammates more productive , but you felt less efficient than ever, Templafy’s research may explain why.
In the wake of 2020, a quickly shifting work landscape forced companies to go beyond the future of work rhetoric and actually implement long-talked-about strategies. But for many tech companies, a new frontier lies ahead – a hybrid work structure – and enterprises’ ability to actually accomplish this successfully hinges on creating a unified, less chaotic software experience that helps businesses run better. This means a more integrated technology experience that can support efficient, high-value work output.
The more productivity tools a workforce has, the more “app-chaos” they’re facing. There are too many options to go about getting work done, and it’s leading to a pattern of procrastination, where the decision of how to actually do your work becomes as much of a task as actually getting it done. A quarter of respondents noted that the number of tools they use to do their work decreases the amount of work they can complete on any given day.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! This is leading to a paradox for businesses: yes, they’re digitally transformed, but disconnectedly so. If we want businesses to be set up for success in this new hybrid, remote and in-person, normal, organizations’ software needs to enable this success. And that lies in an integrated tech stack: respondents said that software that’s integrated into daily workflows (75%) and more user-friendly and intuitive (73%) is what would help them deliver more high value work.
A national online survey of adult full-time employees who work in companies of 100 employees or more, was conducted by Propeller Insights between March 26th and March 27th, 2021. Respondents opted into an online database, from there, they were targeted based on demographics. To further confirm qualifications, respondents were asked to verify their information in the survey itself, self-identifying qualifications, with the maximum margin of sampling error was +/- 3 percentage points with a 95 percent level of confidence.
Read Templafy’s full Business Enablement Report.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
