Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Deals For under $30, you can access the complete 12min Micro Book Library for life Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
There haven’t been a lot of silver linings to the past year. But if there’s something we can point to as a positive outcome of our shared COVID nightmare, it’s spurred many of us to do something that doesn’t happen nearly often enough. We’re all…((gasp))…reading! As it turns out, day upon day stuck inside was some serious incentive for millions to pick up a book, with 35 percent of the world’s population reporting they actually read more in 2020.
 A whole 1 in 7 — 14 percent — said they read significantly more.
You’re taking in more information than ever and the doors to your brain library are wide open right now. Readers can keep that gravy train of knowledge flowing with a lifetime of access to the stacked archives of the 12min Micro Book Library.
No, micro books aren’t printed at doll size. Instead, these micro books are 12-minute encapsulations of over 1,800 non-fiction microbooks in two dozen different categories. As a member, library users can ingest the main takeaways from hundreds of best-selling books on topics ranging from finance, parenting, and leadership to sales, productivity, and more.
The 12min editorial team digs deep, crafting both text and audio versions of all these impactful works, making them available both online and as downloads so you can save and store for when you want them, even if you aren’t in range of WiFi or cell service. And since a 12min micro book only takes 12 minutes, they’re perfectly bite-sized for driving across town, doing a quick workout, or just while waiting for the bus.
In addition to all-time nonfiction titans like The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, Rich Dad Poor Dad, The 4-Hour Workweek, 30 Ways to Reboot Your Body, and more, the library adds about 30 new books a month. And if the library doesn’t already include a summary of the book a user wants, all they have to do is recommend it to 12min for inclusion into the collection.
If you’ve never tried the 12min Micro Book Library before, new users can dive in now and get access to the entire archive for life at one of the lowest prices of the year. Regularly a $399 value, a lifetime 12min pass is now an extra $10 off the already discounted price as part of the Memorial Day Sale, lowering the total to just $29.
 That holiday price ends June 2 so get in on the deal now.
Prices subject to change.
VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
 Prices subject to change.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
