Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Deals Since almost no one watches videos with sound up, Liro Pro automatically adds captions to any video Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Now that everyone from tween girls to multi-billion dollar conglomerates is finally online and creating digital content, especially videos…let’s talk about doing that content correctly.
While everyone should be applauded for finally embracing the now and making videos, creators need to think about how their videos are actually getting watched. Like, the fact that a surprising 85 percent of Facebook videos are watched with the sound off.
 So if you’re including valuable audio information in your social videos, it is often quite literally falling on deaf ears.
While some platforms are doing automatic captioning these days , it’s definitely not the norm yet. Rather than give up that opportunity to engage, a subscription to Liro Pro Auto Captions for Videos can do all the heavy lifting for you.
The numbers don’t lie — videos with captions so people can read along get over 16 percent more reach, reactions, and shares. And if you’re asking viewers to click a link or take action, your odds improve more than 25 percent with captioning like Liro Pro.
Liro Pro takes all the guesswork out of captioning…in fact, it takes most of the regular work out of the process too. Its AI computer brain listens to the voice-overs in your audio, then translates that spoken word into a written text that flows along with the rest of your video. It’s smart enough to understand and translate up to 87 different languages to create those captions, covering all the biggies like English and Spanish to more exotic tongues like Italian, Arabic, Indonesian, and more.
And in case something in your video doesn’t quite sync up, Liro Pro makes all your captions customizable with just a few taps, changing your speed, caption fonts, colors, text position, and more.
With a Liro Pro membership, users can caption an unlimited number of projects. That covers anything up to 15 minutes long and doesn’t include any annoying distractions like a watermark or advertising.
Twelve months of Liro Pro Auto Captions for Videos access is usually a $59 value, but as part of this offer, it’s on sale now for only $19.99.
Prices subject to change.
VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
 Prices subject to change.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
