Microsoft Has ‘Utmost Confidence’ in OpenAI Following Sam Altman Ouster Save 25% and Read now ai policy Regulation Drama in Silicon Valley; Why AI Agents Haven’t Lived Up To The Hype Before we get into today’s main topic, here’s a piece from our editor in chief Jessica Lessin and me that will be interesting if you’re into the drama of Silicon Valley and AI regulation.The article digs into the divisions between tech investors—well known to be an opinionated bunch—around how to regulate new AI technology. The most recent...
Before we get into today’s main topic, here’s a piece from our editor in chief Jessica Lessin and...
startups ai NEA Leads Funding of Startup That Helps Customers Cut AI Costs; A Chinese Startup Seizes on Meta’s Open-Source Llama Model In September, I wrote about an emerging group of startups that help developers manage the exploding costs of AI. These companies figure out what tasks can be handled by cheap-to-use AI models so their customers don’t end up paying for a more expensive model from OpenAI that they don’t really need. There’s signs these companies have legs, at...
In September, I wrote about an emerging group of startups that help developers manage the...
ai Nvidia Steals AMD’s Thunder; The Generative AI Startup Hoping to Making Accounting Exciting Again Those who follow the fast-growing world of artificial intelligence chips may have noticed fanfare on Monday surrounding Nvidia’s new H200 AI chip, a successor to the vaunted H100 that everyone has been trying to get their hands on this year.But Nvidia’s announcement simply may have been an attempt to steal the spotlight from its biggest...
Those who follow the fast-growing world of artificial intelligence chips may have noticed fanfare...
ai The AI Talent Wars Heat Up; The Bankers Banking on AI Deals After reading my colleague Jon Victor’s piece Friday morning, I called up my 16-year-old brother to give him some career advice: Become an AI researcher.As Jon’s piece details, the market for AI talent is heating up, with recruiters from top companies like OpenAI and Google dangling lucrative compensation packages in front of AI researchers....
After reading my colleague Jon Victor’s piece Friday morning, I called up my 16-year-old brother...
ai AI Startups Raising Money From China Are Taking a Risk; Why a New OpenAI Product Costs $2 Million; Anthropic’s Lucrative Love Triangle The U.S. has increasingly restricted China’s ability to access American tech, but for now, Chinese investors are still free to ride the U.S.-led AI software wave. Partners at top Chinese VC firms including Sequoia Capital China, Source Code Capital and ZhenFund have been criss-crossing the U.S. and quietly taking minority stakes in all manner of...
The U.S. has increasingly restricted China’s ability to access American tech, but for now,...
amazon ai Amazon’s ‘Olympus’ Model Faces Steep Odds; Nvidia Crushes Google in AI Chip Test Amazon’s mostly male executives apparently aren’t among the large group of men who supposedly spend much of the day thinking about the ancient Roman Empire. Instead, the folks at Amazon Web Services have been more focused on Greek mythology—at least when it comes to the naming conventions of their AI models.After its first batch of models,...
Amazon’s mostly male executives apparently aren’t among the large group of men who supposedly...
ai OpenAI’s ‘Extinction Event’ For Other AI Startups Despite Elon Musk’s attempts to steal the spotlight, the AI community gave its undivided attention on Monday to OpenAI’s first-ever live event for developers and the press. The large-language model developer didn’t announce any mind-blowing research breakthroughs, but several of its product improvements undoubtedly will hurt some smaller,...
Despite Elon Musk’s attempts to steal the spotlight, the AI community gave its undivided...
and ai Musk’s ChatGPT Rival Isn’t as Smart as It Seems; Creators of a Key Open-Source Model Get Offer From Index Ventures and Elon Musk finally unveiled his alternative to OpenAI’s ChatGPT, which he developed because he felt it was too woke, as my colleagues first revealed eight months ago. Why do it on a Sunday? Perhaps because OpenAI’s Dev Day event in San Francisco is this morning, and Musk’s xAI team was hoping to upstage it. (Musk also doesn’t distinguish between...
Elon Musk finally unveiled his alternative to OpenAI’s ChatGPT, which he developed because he...
ai What it Takes to Make Open-Source AI Cheaper Than OpenAI; Microsoft Goes Multimodal When Meta Platforms’ released its open-source Llama models earlier this year, the tech giant was praised for giving developers a free alternative to the expensive, bleeding-edge large-language models offered by proprietary LLM developers such as OpenAI. Turns out it’s not so simple.In many cases, using open-source LLMs can actually be more...
When Meta Platforms’ released its open-source Llama models earlier this year, the tech giant was...
startups ai An AI Chip Armageddon is Coming; Biden Punts on Open-Source LLMs When I asked David Bennett, the chief customer officer of AI hardware developer Tenstorrent, about the future of startups like his, he was blunt: Most will go out of business.To survive, he recommends startups remain flexible and avoid boxing themselves into any narrow use case. Bennett isn’t referring to some niche market, but rather, a...
When I asked David Bennett, the chief customer officer of AI hardware developer Tenstorrent,...
ai policy What Biden’s AI Executive Order Means The AI world (and my inbox) was rocked yesterday by President Joe Biden’s long-awaited AI executive order, which covered a wide range of issues, from the use of AI in education to watermarking AI-generated content. (For a summary, check out my colleague Amir Efrati's piece here.)Now that we’ve had 24 hours to marinate on the order, here are some...
The AI world (and my inbox) was rocked yesterday by President Joe Biden’s long-awaited AI...
ai What You Missed From Our WTF Conference; Biden’s AI Executive Order Unveiled Here’s a simple but smart idea I heard about last week: Ask all your employees to use AI for every possible task for a week and see what tasks it’s useful or not useful for.That suggestion came from Rebecca Hinds, head of Asana’s Work Innovation Lab, at our annual Women in Tech, Media and Finance conference, during a discussion on generative AI...
Here’s a simple but smart idea I heard about last week: Ask all your employees to use AI for...
ai Don’t Laugh at Intel; Biden’s Industry-Friendly Executive Order Congratulations if you already knew that Intel, the American chip pioneer, had started selling artificial intelligence-related software—as opposed to just hardware—to businesses that want to build generative AI apps. I had no idea myself until I wrote a story on Wednesday about Intel expanding that effort. It’s planning to announce the move...
Congratulations if you already knew that Intel, the American chip pioneer, had started selling...
ai IVP’s Risky Perplexity Bet; CRV Funds Salestech Startup; OpenAI’s First-Mover Hangover If you’re tired of digging through piles of websites and adding “Reddit” to the end of your Google searches, you may want to take a look at this red-hot AI-powered search engine startup—which now has the backing of yet another VC.Perplexity, whose search engine product competes with OpenAI’s ChatGPT and Google’s Bard, is raising around $50...
If you’re tired of digging through piles of websites and adding “Reddit” to the end of your...
venture capital startups Emergence Capital to Fund GPU Reseller Together at $500 Million Valuation If you’ve been following our reporting on Together (here and here), which sells access to cloud-based servers running on Nvidia’s artificial intelligence chips as well as software to help startups train and run AI models, you may remember the firm raising money at a lower valuation than it could have received.
If you’ve been following our reporting on Together (here and here), which sells access to...
ai GPUs’ Latest Magic Act: Securing Data Center Debt; Amazon’s Doubling Down on AI Chips While Nvidia makes bank from selling artificial intelligence chips at $32,000 a pop, several upstart cloud providers—as well as the big guns like Amazon Web Services—are buying as many chips as they can so they can rent them out to AI developers. These cloud providers hope to generate revenue of at least several times that sticker price for each...
While Nvidia makes bank from selling artificial intelligence chips at $32,000 a pop, several...
startups ai SoftBank Looks to Invest $75 Million in OpenAI-Backed Humanoid Robotics Startup In tech, all software roads eventually lead to hardware. Look no further than OpenAI’s Sam Altman dreaming up an artificial intelligence-powered personal device with ex-Apple designer Jony Ive and SoftBank CEO Masayoshi Son. Another topic the three men may have discussed at Ive’s San Francisco studio: existing AI hardware companies that...
In tech, all software roads eventually lead to hardware. Look no further than OpenAI’s Sam Altman...
ai OpenAI Is Human After All; ‘Sharing Is Caring,’ Researchers Tell Model Developers It seems like Silicon Valley’s golden child isn’t perfect after all. In a rare moment of weakness, large-language model developer OpenAI scrapped a new model, codenamed Arrakis, in mid-2023 that would have helped it run its popular chatbot ChatGPT more cheaply, my colleagues Jon Victor and Aaron Holmes reported on Tuesday.OpenAI researchers...
It seems like Silicon Valley’s golden child isn’t perfect after all. In a rare moment of...
ai google Google’s ‘Wartime’ Urgency to Chase ChatGPT Shakes Up Culture When staff working on Google’s ChatGPT rival, Bard, hear from managers that they need to work at “Bard speed,” they know it means moving much faster than they were accustomed to in other parts of the company. Legal reviews of new features can start and end in a day. A feature that might have taken a quarter to prepare in the past now gets done...
When staff working on Google’s ChatGPT rival, Bard, hear from managers that they need to work at...
ai AI Agenda: Why Investors in GPU Resellers May End Up Disappointed In the last year, Nvidia’s AI chips—GPUs in technical parlance—have become the hottest commodity that people are desperate to get a hold of. Lately, we’ve seen the emergence of startups known as GPU resellers or serverless GPU providers. These startups rent GPU servers from cloud providers or other companies that own such servers, including...
In the last year, Nvidia’s AI chips—GPUs in technical parlance—have become the hottest commodity...
1 2 3 4 Next › Last » Get Started © 2013-2023 The Information. All Rights Reserved.
Join now to read full stories
