Microsoft Has ‘Utmost Confidence’ in OpenAI Following Sam Altman Ouster Save 25% and Read now Deals startups venture capital YouTube Co-Founder Hurley’s Stealth AI Startup Raises Money from A-Star Capital, Ron Conway and Eighteen years after co-founding YouTube, Chad Hurley is back with a new startup, EyeTell, which uses artificial intelligence to generate short-form video scripts and content, according to two people familiar with the matter. The five-month-old startup has raised a seed round led by Kevin Hartz’s A-Star Capital with an investment from Ron...
Eighteen years after co-founding YouTube, Chad Hurley is back with a new startup, EyeTell, which...
venture capital startups Palo Alto Networks Finalizing $600 Million-Plus Acquisition of Israeli Security Startup and Palo Alto Networks is close to acquiring Israeli startup Talon Cyber Security in a deal that could value it at $600 million to $700 million, according to two people familiar with the discussions. The deal could be announced as soon as Monday, one of the people said. The acquisition would extend Palo Alto Networks’...
Palo Alto Networks is close to acquiring Israeli startup Talon Cyber Security in a deal that...
startups ai Mistral, a Wannabe OpenAI of Europe, Seeks $300 Million and Mistral, an artificial intelligence startup founded by former Meta Platforms and Alphabet researchers, plans to raise an additional $300 million from investors just four months after raising $113 million in a seed round led by Lightspeed Venture Partners, according to two people familiar with the discussions. The round is expected to value the...
Mistral, an artificial intelligence startup founded by former Meta Platforms and Alphabet...
and venture capital startups Qatar’s Hamas Ties Could Thwart $475 Billion Investing Ambition and Qatar last year signaled it wanted to be a much bigger investor in tech when its $475 billion sovereign wealth fund backed Elon Musk’s takeover of Twitter. Now, the war between Israel and Hamas—a Palestinian terrorist group with ties to Qatar—may hamper those ambitions. The petroleum-rich Persian Gulf nation has been trying to...
Qatar last year signaled it wanted to be a much bigger investor in tech when its $475 billion...
Trucking Company Convoy Halts New Orders, Tells Employees to Prep for ‘Transition’ and Digital trucking marketplace Convoy told employees on Wednesday to stop accepting new orders and said that it was canceling existing shipments, promising to share additional details with staff in the coming days, according to an internal message. The abrupt message comes after months of Convoy exploring strategic options including a potential...
Digital trucking marketplace Convoy told employees on Wednesday to stop accepting new orders and...
venture capital startups Banking Startup Rho in Talks to Buy MrBeast-Backed Creative Juice Rho Technologies, a New York-based banking startup, is in talks to buy Creative Juice, a startup backed by star YouTuber MrBeast that offers upfront financing and other financial tools for creators, according to two people with knowledge of the discussions. A completed deal would mark at least the second acquisition so far this year by Rho,...
Rho Technologies, a New York-based banking startup, is in talks to buy Creative Juice, a startup...
ai cloud Cloud Providers Eye Nuclear Power as AI Saps Data Centers and As cloud providers struggle to cope with fast-growing demand for artificial intelligence computing, they may turn to a source of power that has gone largely untapped by the cloud industry: nuclear. What might be the first data center site with direct access to a nuclear power plant, located outside Berwick, Pa., is now on the auction block....
As cloud providers struggle to cope with fast-growing demand for artificial intelligence...
startups semiconductors The Startup ‘Adrenaline Junkie’ Trying to Break Open the IPO Market When bankers working on Arm’s impending initial public offering wanted to talk to one of the executives in charge of the SoftBank-owned chip designer, they sometimes heard heavy breathing on the other end of the phone. It was the sound of Jason Child, a longtime Amazon executive who is now Arm’s chief financial officer, running up a...
When bankers working on Arm’s impending initial public offering wanted to talk to one of...
startups venture capital Venture Firms Hang the ‘For Sale’ Sign on Portfolios and Some of the most active startup investors have been hanging a “for sale” sign on their portfolios at a time when venture investors are finding it increasingly difficult to raise new venture funds. Insight Partners has considered selling a stake valued at $400 million in Left Lane Capital, a consumer-focused venture capital firm...
Some of the most active startup investors have been hanging a “for sale” sign on...
venture capital startups Drug Startup Truepill Moves to Cut Share Price 90% as Garry Tan Departs Board Truepill, a startup that ships prescription drugs on behalf of online pharmacies such as Hims, Mark Cuban’s Cost Plus Drugs and GoodRx, has authorized slashing the price of some of its shares by more than 90% from their peak in 2021, according to a recent filing provided by Prime Unicorn Index. In 2021, the startup said investors had...
Truepill, a startup that ships prescription drugs on behalf of online pharmacies such as Hims,...
venture capital startups Lending Startups Seek Buyers as Rate Hikes Hobble Growth and Venture-backed consumer lending startups are starting to fold their cards. Happy Money, an online lending startup formerly known as Payoff, is in talks to sell itself, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter. The Torrance, Calif.-based company, valued at $1.1 billion in a private financing announced in February last year, has...
Venture-backed consumer lending startups are starting to fold their cards. Happy Money, an online...
and venture capital startups Modular, AI Startup Challenging Nvidia, Discusses Funding at $600 Million Valuation and Modular, a startup whose software aims to loosen Nvidia’s chokehold over in-demand artificial intelligence chips, has been in talks with investors including General Catalyst to raise Series A funding that would value it at roughly $600 million, according to two people with knowledge of the deal discussions. The new capital would come less...
Modular, a startup whose software aims to loosen Nvidia’s chokehold over in-demand...
venture capital startups Tome, AI Startup Founded by Ex-Meta Managers, Discusses Fundraising at $600 Million Valuation and Tome, a startup that uses artificial intelligence to make it easier to create and design presentations, has talked to investors about raising new money that could double its valuation to up to $600 million, according to two people with direct knowledge of the discussions. The new financing could amount to $60 million, according to one of the...
Tome, a startup that uses artificial intelligence to make it easier to create and design...
venture capital startups Venture Firms Still Writing Small Checks Despite $271 Billion in ‘Dry Powder’ In 2019, Sean Park—a co-founder of Anthemis Group—was on the road 200 nights a year, traveling to Boston, London and other tech hot spots to meet with startups. Even after Covid-19 curtailed travel, Park, who is also the firm’s chief investment officer, was swamped with Zoom meetings with entrepreneurs he was thinking about...
In 2019, Sean Park—a co-founder of Anthemis Group—was on the road 200 nights a year,...
venture capital startups ‘Tidal Wave’ of Down Rounds Hits Startups and Turntide Technologies, a maker of electric motor systems backed by Bill Gates–founded Breakthrough Energy Ventures, was one of the more than 300 private companies that passed the $1 billion valuation threshold last year, putting it firmly into unicorn status. It’s not worth close to that anymore. The Sunnyvale, Calif., firm is...
Turntide Technologies, a maker of electric motor systems backed by Bill Gates–founded...
venture capital startups Reed Jobs to Start $400 Million VC Fund, Testing Appetite for New Funds Reed Jobs, son of late Apple co-founder Steve Jobs and his spouse, philanthropist Laurene Powell Jobs, is leaving his mother’s Emerson Collective to start his own venture capital fund, according to a person with direct knowledge. The 31-year-old Reed Jobs is planning to raise $400 million for the fund he’s calling Yosemite Fund 1,...
Reed Jobs, son of late Apple co-founder Steve Jobs and his spouse, philanthropist Laurene Powell...
venture capital startups Coatue Raises $331 Million for Early-Stage Fund, 34% Below Target Coatue Management has raised $331 million for its third fund focused on early-stage startups, according to a financial filing, a third less than its target and lower than its previous early-stage fund. The smaller than anticipated total shows how the firms that raised huge funds during the pandemic investing boom are falling short of their...
Coatue Management has raised $331 million for its third fund focused on early-stage startups,...
venture capital startups Nvidia Accelerates AI Startup Investments, Nears Deal With Cloud Provider Lambda Labs and Nvidia is known for its stranglehold over the market for the data center chips that power ChatGPT and other artificial intelligence software. But in a matter of a few months, Nvidia has also become one of the biggest venture capital investors in an important class of customers who need its chips: cloud and AI software startups. In the latest...
Nvidia is known for its stranglehold over the market for the data center chips that power ChatGPT...
startups ai Character.AI in Talks to Raise Funding as Meta Platforms Tests Rival and Character.AI, which lets users create artificial intelligence–powered chatbots modeled after figures like TV character Tony Soprano and Tesla CEO Elon Musk, is in talks with investors about raising an additional round of funding, according to a person with direct knowledge. The discussions come just four months after Character.AI said...
Character.AI, which lets users create artificial intelligence–powered chatbots modeled...
e-commerce Why Beauty Company Oddity is Poised For a Hot IPO Cosmetics company Oddity Tech, which filed to go public last week, doesn’t need the stock market to continue rallying for its public debut to take off. Instead, Oddity can ride a tsunami of investor enthusiasm for other beauty and skin care stocks whose businesses have been lifted by TikTok popularity. One of the best stock market...
Cosmetics company Oddity Tech, which filed to go public last week, doesn’t need the stock...
1 2 Next › Last » Get Started © 2013-2023 The Information. All Rights Reserved.
Join now to read full stories
