Microsoft Has ‘Utmost Confidence’ in OpenAI Following Sam Altman Ouster Save 25% and Read now The 1:1 culture The Dating App Founder Who Wants You to Stop Swiping Within minutes of meeting Amanda Bradford, founder of dating app The League, I had to bring up the company’s did-they-really-just-say-that subway ads. “Date someone with a 5-year plan that makes you want to ovulate” one reads; “Achieve multiple goalgasms” suggests another. Covering three New York...
Within minutes of meeting Amanda Bradford, founder of dating app The League, I had to bring up...
Airbnb Needed a New Story—It Found a Narrator from the West Wing It’s been a rough two years of headlines for Airbnb: hosts sneaking guests in through freight elevators, massive spiders hiding in the ceiling, tens of thousands of complaints about the platform’s ever-increasing fees. And that’s not even including the company’s legal issues, like New York’s recent crackdown on the...
It’s been a rough two years of headlines for Airbnb: hosts sneaking guests in through...
ai ‘It’s Like I Created a Baby’: An AI Matriarch Appraises Her Offspring In the most overheated technology debate of our time—the societal impact of artificial intelligence—Fei-Fei Li finds herself precariously balanced in the middle. A Stanford University computer science professor and co-head of its Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence, Li is neither a Geoffrey Hinton–esque doomer,...
In the most overheated technology debate of our time—the societal impact of artificial...
venture capital policy A New Novel By ‘Silicon Valley’s Favorite Fixer’ Is Coming for Everybody In Bradley Tusk’s new satirical novel, “Obvious in Hindsight,” no one is safe from skewering—including the author. When I asked Tusk whether his cast of conniving characters is based on people he’s encountered in his long, drama-filled career in politics and tech, or whether they are actually all versions of...
In Bradley Tusk’s new satirical novel, “Obvious in Hindsight,” no one is safe...
ai Spotify’s AI Chief Wants to Remix Our Relationship With Discovery When Ziad Sultan began thinking about artificial intelligence, there was no craze afoot. Not even a cultish flurry of excitement. Sultan, who is now Spotify’s vice president of personalization, responsible for a slate of new AI features for the audio streamer, first caught the bug in the early 2000s. He was 17, had just moved to Cambridge,...
When Ziad Sultan began thinking about artificial intelligence, there was no craze afoot. Not even...
ai policy Signal Chief Meredith Whittaker Could Use Some Backup in the Fight for Encryption I was about to sit down for coffee in Brooklyn with Meredith Whittaker when she started apologizing for the messages blowing up her phone. “Sorry, we’re launching our post-quantum protocol today,” she said while tapping away in—what else—her Signal app. Whittaker, the president of the Signal Foundation, the...
I was about to sit down for coffee in Brooklyn with Meredith Whittaker when she started...
Twitter The Head of the Anti-Defamation League Wants to Make Peace With Elon Musk By the time Jonathan Greenblatt jumped on the phone at 10:30 a.m. Pacific time this Wednesday, he had already made the rounds on CNN, CNBC and MSNBC. It had been a high blood pressure day for the CEO and national director of the Anti-Defamation League. And that was before X owner Elon Musk fired off the latest in a barrage of tweets taking...
By the time Jonathan Greenblatt jumped on the phone at 10:30 a.m. Pacific time this Wednesday, he...
electric vehicles Selling a Vision, and a $2 Million Hypercar, at Pebble Beach The chassis lurking under the skin of most cars is a pretty pedestrian thing—mostly sections of stamped and welded steel perforated with mounting points for the engine, suspension and everything else required to make the machine whole. The 3D-printed chassis of the Czinger 21C, however, has an unnervingly organic look. Imagine a car not so...
The chassis lurking under the skin of most cars is a pretty pedestrian thing—mostly...
ai ‘Not Everyone Is Trying to Build God’: Runway CEO Cristóbal Valenzuela Tries to Dampen the Doomerism It might have been a moment lost in translation, or perhaps a willful reinterpretation, but when I asked Cristóbal Valenzuela who in the tech world inspires him most, he named a Chilean poet. “Nicanor Parra came up with this idea of ‘anti-poetry,’” explained Valenzuela, co-founder and CEO of Runway, a generative AI...
It might have been a moment lost in translation, or perhaps a willful reinterpretation, but when...
startups entertainment Elan Lee Wants to Explode More Than Kittens Exploding Kittens CEO Elan Lee still remembers the exact moment when he realized that he had to quit his job at Microsoft. Back in 2014, when he was chief design officer for the company’s Xbox Entertainment Studios division, Lee was visiting his younger brother for a small family reunion, only to find his niece and nephew zoned out in...
Exploding Kittens CEO Elan Lee still remembers the exact moment when he realized that he had to...
Fifteen Years After Founding Grindr, Joel Simkhai Has ‘Unfinished Business’ On a sweat-soaked New York afternoon over Pride Weekend, a short line formed outside a dark bar on the Lower East Side. After checking customers’ IDs, a boyish-looking bouncer at the front door asked if they’d downloaded the app they needed to get in: “Do you have Motto?” I pulled up the app, its home screen affixed with...
On a sweat-soaked New York afternoon over Pride Weekend, a short line formed outside a dark bar...
policy Jennifer Pahlka Hasn’t Given Up on Fixing the Government It was in spring 2017 that Jennifer Pahlka, then a member of the Pentagon’s new Defense Innovation Board, found herself in a darkened U.S. military base watching a young analyst study aerial footage of a suspicious car. Well, the analyst was trying to parse the images: The Pentagon was relying on clunky, outdated software to highlight the...
It was in spring 2017 that Jennifer Pahlka, then a member of the Pentagon’s new Defense...
ai Adam D’Angelo’s Endless Quest to Answer Everything Adam D’Angelo is basking in an “endless summer” of artificial intelligence. A few weeks before he and 350 industry peers released a bizarre, one-line statement warning that AI could herald a nuclear-level extinction event, the 38-year-old co-founder of Quora told me he actually sees more upside in AI than downside. “Right...
Adam D’Angelo is basking in an “endless summer” of artificial intelligence. A...
culture A Lounge, an Office and a Strike Against Silicon Valley’s ‘Factory Mentality’ On May 9, Expensify issued a quarterly earnings report that even its likable longtime CEO couldn’t soften. It had been a “nuclear winter” for the economy, David Barrett told shareholders. There were silver linings for his expense management software company, but “don’t get me wrong, this quarter sucked.” His...
On May 9, Expensify issued a quarterly earnings report that even its likable longtime CEO...
ai An AI Researcher Tries to Build Good AI While Burning Down the Bad In the hours after Margaret Mitchell was fired by Google over email in February 2021, she ran to the bathroom and threw up. “I was just so terrified that I was never going to get a job in tech again, that my name had been scarlet lettered,” she told me over an hourlong Zoom this week, calling from her home outside Seattle. That was...
In the hours after Margaret Mitchell was fired by Google over email in February 2021, she ran to...
google policy ‘This Fight Is Much Bigger Than Yelp Versus Google’: Antitrust Crusader Luther Lowe Is Enjoying the Moment Here’s something you don’t hear every day: “I'm a little bit jealous of my friends who are working inside government.” Such is the rosy outlook of Luther Lowe, the 40-year-old senior vice president for public policy at Yelp, as he assesses the state of antitrust reform in Washington these days. Speaking over Zoom the...
Here’s something you don’t hear every day: “I'm a little bit jealous of my...
A Son of Palo Alto Digs Up Its Skeletons Around 70,000 people live in Palo Alto, Calif., but to walk through it with Malcolm Harris is to see a town populated with ghosts. There are the specters of Leland Stanford and his wife Jane (who may or may not have been murdered in a battle for control of Stanford University). There’s the spirit of William Shockley, inventor of the...
Around 70,000 people live in Palo Alto, Calif., but to walk through it with Malcolm Harris is to...
culture media/telecom ‘I’ve Been Driven by My Gut My Entire Life’: Bozoma Saint John Returns to the Spotlight Last month, Beyoncé’s team invited Bozoma Saint John to Dubai for the grand opening of the Atlantis The Royal hotel. The starring attraction was a performance by Queen B herself, but the event also coincided with Saint John’s 46th birthday, which she celebrated with champagne toasts, fireworks displays and walks on the red...
Last month, Beyoncé’s team invited Bozoma Saint John to Dubai for the grand opening...
google ‘We Just Have to Keep Winning’: A Sonos Executive With a Colorful History Goes to War Against Google A few months into his job as chief legal officer of Sonos, Eddie Lazarus was ready to wage war. When Lazarus joined the audio hardware company in late 2018, it was facing growing competition from Amazon and Google. Both tech giants were selling cheap speakers capable of multiroom audio playback, a feature Sonos had pioneered on its devices...
A few months into his job as chief legal officer of Sonos, Eddie Lazarus was ready to wage war. ...
media/telecom Bari Weiss Brings the Culture Wars Home “I’m just putting my face on!” yelled the voice around the corner. Bari Weiss—former New York Times Op-Ed staff editor and writer and current founder of the controversy-courting new media company The Free Press—came streaming into her living room, hair wet, dressed all in black. She greeted me and two of her...
“I’m just putting my face on!” yelled the voice around the corner. Bari...
1 2 Next › Last » Get Started © 2013-2023 The Information. All Rights Reserved.
Join now to read full stories
