Microsoft Has ‘Utmost Confidence’ in OpenAI Following Sam Altman Ouster Save 25% and Read now venture capital startups Live By the Valley, Die By the Valley New subscribers can get three months on us with our Black Friday offer, available through November 26. You’ll save 25% on an annual subscription, which gives you unlimited access to our journalism, org charts, events, newsletters—and, of course, every story from The Information Weekend. Subscribe here to save $100+.Hi, welcome to your...
New subscribers can get three months on us with our Black Friday offer, available through...
culture facebook Tech Rolls Out the Red Carpet Hi, welcome to your Weekend.Today marks the opening of the Asian-Pacific Economic Cooperative Summit in San Francisco, which is basically NBA All-Star weekend for government people. For the next seven days, our one-name tech leaders (Sam, Elon, Marc, Sundar) will play unofficial hosts to their lawmaking counterparts from around the globe (Joe,...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.Today marks the opening of the Asian-Pacific Economic Cooperative...
crypto ai The SBF Circus Leaves Town Hi, welcome to your Weekend.For the past five weeks, The Information’s crypto reporter Aidan Ryan has been taking one for the team, rising long before dawn to commute to the U.S. courthouse in Lower Manhattan. Once there, he’d grab a place in line and wait on the sidewalk for hours, huddling in the dark and sometimes the pouring rain, until the...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.For the past five weeks, The Information’s crypto reporter Aidan Ryan...
ai culture One AI Device to Rule Them All Hi, welcome to your Weekend.It’s been 10 years since the movie “Her” introduced us to a queasy future in which a man falls in love with his AI-powered digital assistant. Guess who loved that movie? Yup, Sam Altman, the father of ChatGPT. “The things ‘Her’ got right—like the whole interaction models of how people use AI—that was incredibly...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.It’s been 10 years since the movie “Her” introduced us to a queasy...
Hey Alexa: What’s Andy Jassy Up To? Hi, welcome to your Weekend.As Jessica writes in her cover story this week, Andy Jassy has enjoyed a relatively smooth transition period as CEO of Amazon. Sure, there have been hiccups and challenges in the two years since Jeff Bezos handed Jassy the reins. He earned some ire from employees after laying off 27,000 workers in 2022. And there was...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.As Jessica writes in her cover story this week, Andy Jassy has...
startups ai Thierry, Taylor, Rainbolt and Sam Hi, welcome to your Weekend.This wasn’t an easy week for anyone. But if you’re on a trust and safety team of a social media company, this was likely the worst week in memory. In just three days after Hamas committed its depraved terrorist attacks in Israel last Saturday, Meta reported removing nearly 800,000 pieces of content labeled as “...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.This wasn’t an easy week for anyone. But if you’re on a trust and...
startups ai ‘A Unicorn Atop a Unicorn’ Hi, welcome to your Weekend.Silicon Valley loves a wunderkind, as we covered extensively last spring. It also loves to pattern-match, projecting visions of future success on entrepreneurs who look a lot like winners of the past. So what happens when an obvious wunderkind doesn’t look anything like her predecessors? It took a lot of...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.Silicon Valley loves a wunderkind, as we covered extensively last...
startups policy The Heir Who Wants to Be Mayor Hi, welcome to your Weekend.To spend time with Daniel Lurie is to understand the true meaning of the word “mensch.” Everyone who knows the San Francisco philanthropist and Levi’s heir says pretty much the same things about him: Daniel is “a really good guy”—affable, smart, egoless and earnest in his desire to improve the lives of the...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.To spend time with Daniel Lurie is to understand the true meaning of...
venture capital ai What a Brazilian Steakhouse Says About the Tech Economy Hi, welcome to your Weekend.One of my favorite tech memes is the “We’re so back” post, the kind that pokes fun at the industry returning to the good old days of expensive perks and wine-soaked dinners.I had a real-life “We’re so back” moment this week when I attended a bacchanalian feast thrown by Bain Capital Ventures at Fogo de Chão in...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.One of my favorite tech memes is the “We’re so back” post, the...
venture capital space Meet the Leaders of the Austin Tech Brat Pack Hi, welcome to your Weekend.It’s been another week of all-things Elon Musk, courtesy of Walter Isaacson’s book drop, an appearance in Washington for AI discussions with lawmakers and his opining on the inevitability of a future Chinese invasion of Taiwan at the All-In Summit. The illustration designer Clark Miller created for Adam Lashinsky’s...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.It’s been another week of all-things Elon Musk, courtesy of Walter...
venture capital culture 'If Hell Is a Party Like This...' Hi, welcome to your Weekend.“The playa doesn’t give you what you want. It gives you what you need.” I’ve been hearing that old Burning Man saw around these parts since the early 2000s—most recently by a participant in this weekend’s cover story, The Instant Oral History of ‘Trench Foot Burning Man.’ But never has the truism seemed more true...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.“The playa doesn’t give you what you want. It gives you what you...
ai asia The Botched Reveal of California Forever Hi, welcome to your Weekend.This week, we’re publishing stories from near (a testosterone party in San Francisco) and far (Jessica's four-day reporting junket in China). But there’s another story we’re tracking that is geographically close to home and psychologically close to Never Never Land. I’m talking about the dream city of California...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.This week, we’re publishing stories from near (a testosterone party...
Tech Leaders Spend How Much(?!) on Their Bodies? Hi, welcome to your Weekend.It’s Annie here, stealing this week’s newsletter opener from Jon (don’t worry, he knows). I wanted to properly introduce The Information Weekend’s first ever Brain-Body Investment Survey, which we’ve been working on over the past month. In my nearly two years at The Information, I’ve taken special interest in...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.It’s Annie here, stealing this week’s newsletter opener from Jon (don...
electric vehicles ai Stars Learn to Love Their AI Doppelgängers Hi, welcome to your Weekend.There’s been a lot of bed-wetting down in Southern California this summer about the dangers of the artificial intelligence boom. Maybe bed-wetting isn’t fair: The Hollywood actors who are striking, in part, over how their AI-generated likenesses will be scanned, stored and monetized, have valid concerns. And they...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.There’s been a lot of bed-wetting down in Southern California this...
venture capital google Evangelists of Two Different Silicon Valleys Heads up, Weekenders: The Information is asking subscribers how much time and money they spend on their various fitness and wellness routines. Please fill out our completely anonymous Brain-Body Investment survey (done in five minutes, tops), and we'll share the results soon. Thanks for participating! Hi, welcome to your Weekend....
Heads up, Weekenders: The Information is asking subscribers how much time and money they spend on...
startups ai The Superconductor of the Summer Hi, welcome to your Weekend.Culturally, it’s been a very Barbie-Taylor-Tom (Cruise) summer. A season of mega-popular, mega-lucrative, four-quadrant entertainments that have returned us, however briefly, to the pre-internet days of the monoculture. So imagine my surprise when the online discourse shifted abruptly this week to the very niche...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.Culturally, it’s been a very Barbie-Taylor-Tom (Cruise) summer. A...
startups asia Blind Loyalty to an Anonymous Chat App Hi, welcome to your Weekend.What’s that I hear? It’s the sound of thousands of techies in the Bay Area calling in favors and taking out second mortgages to score tickets to Taylor Swift’s concert at Levi’s Stadium last night and tonight in Santa Clara. If you succeeded, congratulations! Speaking of Taylor, I stumbled across a fascinating...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.What’s that I hear? It’s the sound of thousands of techies in the Bay...
startups facebook A Stripe Co-Founder’s Billionaire Flex Hi, welcome to your Weekend.You’re likely not intimately familiar with the world of John Collison, and that is mostly by design. Unlike other millennial tech titans like Sam Altman, Brian Chesky and Brian Armstrong, relatively little has been written about Collison, the intensely private, Irish-born co-founder of the $50 billion payments...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.You’re likely not intimately familiar with the world of John...
google entertainment Tech's Proudest Workforce No Longer Hi, welcome to your Weekend.The problems that have afflicted Google over the past 12 months are not unique to the search giant or its parent company Alphabet. The entire tech industry has been in correction mode after the hyper-growth years of 2020-2021, with more than 218,000 jobs slashed thus far in 2023, according to Layoffs.fyi.But Google’s...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.The problems that have afflicted Google over the past 12 months are...
startups ai An AI Company and Its Fanatical Following Hi, welcome to your Weekend.Since we launched our Weekend section in November 2021, we’ve been near-obsessive chroniclers of the generative AI boom. Our very first cover story, written by yours truly, was on Sam Altman and his optimistic vision for OpenAI. We followed that up with reports on how AI image generators would disrupt the...
Hi, welcome to your Weekend.Since we launched our Weekend section in November 2021, we’ve been...
1 2 3 4 5 6 Next › Last » Get Started © 2013-2023 The Information. All Rights Reserved.
Join now to read full stories
