Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Deals Get prep courses to ace a dozen CompTIA certification, all for under $20 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn With top-flight IT experts always in high demand, you can join their ranks and get to the top of even the most exclusive resume piles with the training from The All-Access CompTIA A+ and Network Certification Prep Bundle.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
There’s nothing like proving you really know your way around a critical tech area. Armed with that kind of knowledge, you can start charting your own career path as an IT pro. With certification from the Computing Technology Industry Association (CompTIA) a tech industry seal of approval for nearly 30 years, it can be a decision-maker in landing you the tech job you want.
With top-flight IT experts always in high demand, you can join their ranks and get to the top of even the most exclusive resume piles with the training from The All-Access CompTIA A+ and Network Certification Prep Bundle.
Not only is CompTIA the gold standard of IT certifications, this 12-course, 160-plus hour package of training also includes all of CompTIA’s best, training in all the top disciplines to earn a dozen certifications in all the most sought-after areas where companies need major talent.
It begins with training in tackling the CompTIA A+ exam, the primary cert for anyone looking to begin an IT career. These Core 1 and Core 2 prep courses cover all the basics, including everything from mobile devices, networking technology, and hardware to virtualization, cloud computing, and network troubleshooting.
From there, further coursework helps explore all the most vital areas in IT training, including certification in elite networking tactics in Network+, and the latest in cloud technologies to ace the Cloud+ exam.
But since there’s still no area in tech today more vitally important than cybersecurity, no fewer than eight courses get into that rich need area. It starts with the CompTIA Security+ training, the first security certification any IT professional needs, before moving into an Advanced Security Practitioner course, as well as how to earn big bucks as a security analyst. There’s even the PenTest+ course training to get students up to speed in finding system vulnerabilities and using those talents as certified ethical hackers.
The All-Access CompTIA A+ and Network Certification Prep Bundle includes a full $2,400 worth of elite-level training, and as part of the Semi-Annual Sale, it’s also 60 percent off the already discounted price. Use the code ANNUAL60 and this 12-course bundle is available now for only $18.
VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
 Prices subject to change.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
