Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Salesforce and Atlassian double down on developer security with $75M Snyk investment Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Snyk logo Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Let the OSS Enterprise newsletter guide your open source journey! Sign up here.
Snyk , the company behind an open source security scanning platform, has extended its series F round of funding by another $75 million. The Boston-headquartered company announced a $530 million investment just a few weeks back at a whopping $8.5 billion valuation. The transaction included both primary and secondary investments, meaning that Snyk had in fact only raised around $300 million in fresh capital.
For the extension, which closes the series F round off at $605 million, Snyk has attracted return investments from the venture capital arms of Atlassian and Salesforce, which are now responsible for 10% of Snyk’s $850 million total raised since its inception. And for the record, Snyk is now valued at $8.6 billion.
By way of a brief recap, Snyk’s SaaS platform helps developers find and fix vulnerabilities — as well as surface license violations — in their open source codebases, containers, and Kubernetes applications. Founded initially out of London and Tel Aviv in 2015, Snyk has amassed an impressive roster of customers in its six-year history, including Google, Salesforce, Intuit, and Atlassian.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Strategic Atlassian’s follow-on investment in Snyk is particularly notable, as it comes shortly after Snyk announced a slew of integrations with Bitbucket Cloud and Atlassian Open DevOps, suggesting that Atlassian’s continued backing is as much a strategic move as it is anything else.
“Snyk is reinventing the way organizations think about security,” Atlassian’s head of corporate development Chris Hecht said in a statement. “They are a vital part of our ecosystem, tightly integrated into our core products.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
