Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Software security groups increased use of open source tech by 61% over 2 years Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Man and 2 laptop screen with program code.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
BSIMM12 data indicates a 61% increase in software security groups’ identification and management of open source over the past two years, almost certainly due to the prevalence of open source components in modern software and the rise of attacks using popular open projects as vectors.
The growth in activities related to cloud platforms and container technologies show the dramatic impact these technologies have had on how organizations use and secure software. For example, Building Security In Maturity Model (better known as BSIMM) made only five observations of “use orchestration for containers and virtualized environments” in BSIMM10, while it made 33 observations two years later for BSIMM12 — an increase of 560%.
Another emerging trend observed in the BSIMM12 research is that businesses are learning how to translate risk into numbers. Organizations are exerting more effort to collect and publish their software security initiative data, demonstrated by a 30% increase of the “publish data about software security internally” activity over the past 24 months.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! BSIMM12 data also shows an increase in capabilities focused on inventorying software; creating a software bill of materials (BOM); understanding how the software was built, configured, and deployed; and the organization’s ability to redeploy based on security telemetry.
Demonstrating that many organizations have taken to heart the need for a comprehensive up-to-date software BOM, the BSIMM activity related to those capabilities — “enhance application inventory with operations bill of materials” — increased from 3 to 14 observations over the past two years, a 367% increase.
The move from maintaining traditional operational inventories toward automated asset discovery and creating bills of material includes adding “shift everywhere” activities such as using containers to enforce security controls, orchestration, and scanning infrastructure as code.
BSIMM has grown from nine participating companies in 2008 to 128 in 2021, with now nearly 3,000 software security group members and over 6,000 satellite members (aka “security champions”).
This 2021 edition of the BSIMM report — BSIMM12 — examines anonymized data from the software security activities of 128 organizations across various verticals, including financial services, FinTech, independent software vendors, IoT, healthcare, and technology organizations.
Read the full report by BSIMM.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
