Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cnvrg.io develops on-demand service to run AI workloads across infrastructures Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Cnvrg.io has launched a Metacloud service to help AI developers run their workloads across any mainstream infrastructure.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Cnvrg.io, the Intel-owned company that offers a platform to help data scientists build and deploy machine learning applications, has opened early access to a new managed service called Cnvrg.io Metacloud.
The offering, as the company explains, gives AI developers the flexibility to run, test, and deploy AI and machine learning (ML) workloads on a mix of mainstream infrastructure and hardware choices, even within the same AI/ML workflow or pipeline.
Cnvrg.io Metacloud: Flexibility for AI developers AI experts can often find themselves struggling to scale their projects due to the limitations of the cloud or on-premise infrastructure in use. They do get the option to switch to a new environment, but that means re-instrumenting a completely new stack as well as spending a lot of cash and time. This eventually keeps most of the users locked on a single vendor, making it a major obstacle to scaling and operationalizing AI.
Cnvrg.io Metacloud tackles this challenge with a flexible software-as-a-service (SaaS) interface, where developers can pick cloud or on-premise compute resources and storage services of their choice to match the demand of their AI/ML workloads.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The solution has been designed using cloud-native technologies such as containers and Kubernetes, which enables developers to pick any infrastructure provider from a partner menu to run their project. All users need to do is create an account, select the AI/ML infrastructure (any public cloud, on-premise, co-located, dev cloud, pre-release hardware, and more), and run the workload, the company said.
Plus, since there is no commercial commitment, developers can always change to a different infrastructure to meet growing project demands or budget constraints. The current list of supported providers includes Intel, AWS, Azure, GCP, Dell, Redhat, VMWare, and Seagate.
“AI has yet to meet its ultimate potential by overcoming all the operational complexities. The future of machine learning is dependent on the ability to deliver models seamlessly using the best infrastructure available,” Yochay Ettun, CEO and cofounder of Cnvrg.io, said in a statement.
“Cnvrg.io Metacloud is built to give flexibility and choice to AI developers to enable successful development of AI instead of limiting them, so enterprises can realize the full benefits of machine learning sooner,” he added.
Cnvrg.io Metacloud will be provided as part of the Cnvrg.io full-stack machine learning operating system, designed to help developers build and deploy machine learning models. The early access version of the solution can be accessed upon request via the company website.
Notably, this is the first major announcement from Cnvrg.io since its acquisition by Intel in 2020. Prior to the deal, the company had raised about $8 million from multiple investors, including Hanaco Venture Capital and Jerusalem Venture Partners.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
