Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 55% of execs say that SolarWinds hack hasn’t affected software purchases Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn IT cloud business software Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
According to a recent study by Venalfi, more than half of executives (55%) with responsibility for both security and software development reported that the SolarWinds hack has had little or no impact on the concerns they consider when purchasing software products for their company. Additionally, 69% say their company has not increased the number of security questions they are asking software providers about the processes used to assure software security and verify code.
As the one-year anniversary of the infamous SolarWinds cyberattacks approaches, it’s a great time to evaluate the changes that companies have put in place to protect against similar attacks. These attacks shone a light on a new set of weak spots in organizations’ security controls, especially because software developers are primarily focused on speed and innovation, not security. Attackers know this and are actively taking advantage of it. Unfortunately, Venalfi’s study reveals that while executives are concerned about software supply chain attacks and are aware of the urgent need for action, the data indicates they aren’t taking the steps that will drive change.
Today, every business is a software business. If companies don’t work together to make actionable plans to ensure the software that’s used is secure, everyone will remain vulnerable to attacks that target the software supply chain. Even though the risk of supply chain attacks continues to rise, many organizations have not even decided which team is responsible for improving the security of the software supply chain: developers or InfoSec professionals.
Venafi’s survey evaluated the opinions of more than 1,000 IT and development professionals, including 193 executives with responsibility for both security and software development, and uncovered a glaring disconnect between executive concern and executive action.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Read the full report by Venalfi.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
