Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 64% of security leaders identify obstacles to internal cyber threat intelligence Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
According to a new Forrester study commissioned by Cyware, 64% of respondents note that sharing cyber threat intelligence between their organizations’ security operations center (SOC), incident response, and threat intelligence teams is limited. Chief information security offers (CISOs) must better understand the technology and data access challenges preventing their SOCs from enabling the holistic defense required to secure modern organizations.
Organizations cite several data silos and data access issues that hinder their ability to achieve collective defense. Seventy-one percent of security leaders report that their teams need access to threat intelligence, security operations data, incident response data, and vulnerability data, yet 65% of respondents find it very challenging to provide security teams with cohesive data access. Top obstacles to unifying technologies include cross-team collaboration (55%), data silos within security teams (47%), discovering and accessing data (45%), and functional silos within security (45%). These common hurdles shine a spotlight on the need for organizations to better unify their security teams, processes, and technologies to bolster defenses and more proactively defend their assets.
Those who acknowledge the consequence of not unifying are turning to security tools and functions, such as security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) technologies, to support efforts to reach collective defense. Due to difficulties unifying data access, security teams, and security technologies, firms report several consequences tied to hazardous defense issues, including slow threat response (60%), avoidable data breaches (57%), and avoidable human error (53%). In addition, there are financial impacts experienced because of a lack of security unification and automation, such as high mitigation costs and increased cybersecurity spending (51%), as well as fines and compliance issues (45%).
The continuously evolving, dynamic threat landscape and cross-team collaboration challenges are motivating leaders to evaluate security firms’ existing security approaches and move towards adopting unified collective defense foundations to remain viable.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The study surveyed 339 cross-industry global security leaders to better understand the top challenges preventing organizations from achieving true collective defense. The report demonstrates common data access challenges in the modern SOC and the impact of siloed security operations on threat response efficacy.
Read the full report by Cyware.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
