Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Wonder launches online networking platform where people can meet Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Wonder is going after online events.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Virtual networking startup Wonder announced today the launch of the next iteration of their video conferencing software.
Berlin-based Wonder , previously known as YoTribe, has created a virtual space where groups can get together to create connections in a way that the company says feels natural and energizing. The company raised $11 million a year ago.
Guests move around the space freely, choosing their conversation partners and actively shaping the event. This makes space for serendipity and fosters interactions and connections between participants. It’s another kind of replacement for our Zoom calls, and it’s attacking the problem of tech fatigue during the pandemic.
Though virtual events and video conferencing have become the new standards, according to a new survey, participants don’t feel like they are truly “connecting,” according to the company’s poll.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! With 84% of respondents admitting to not paying full attention to video conferences, it’s no surprise so many of us feel drained and detached when on a video call, Wonder said. However, events on Wonder generate energy and real serendipitous human connection by leveraging simple, yet sophisticated tools and a natural need to interact with others, the company said.
“Social spaces are at the core of our lives,” said Wonder co-founder, Stephane Roux, in a statement. “Our desk at the office and the connections we made there, the hotel bar where we met a slew of new people at that last great conference, the courtyard in college where we met some of our now oldest friends. Those spaces are filled with meaning because of the shared experiences we made with others there and we want to build those spaces online.” Above: Wonder lets you stage online events where people can network.
Wonder is a browser-based 2D virtual space in which users move their avatars around freely. When they get close to other avatars, a video chat opens. The spaces contain up to 500 participants and users can move between groups to meet others and experience the event together. Hosts can customize this space with backgrounds such as a corporate logo, solid color, abstract image, their own uploaded image, and more. Within that “space”, hosts can build “areas” which give structure to the space and can represent different themes within an event or conference, such as “Breakout Session” or “Meet and Mingle.” More than 75% of Wonder’s current users, including organizations as diverse as NASA, Deloitte, Harvard, Vodafone and Paypal, said the freedom of movement and ability to initiate conversations with others offers flexibility and a more engaged audience.
“When COVID hit, we all did the best we could with what we had: conference calls became video calls, etc.” said Roux. “But in the virtual space we don’t have to do things as we always have. We can reimagine how we connect and interact, and rather than trying to recreate the physical world, we can create a new, dynamic experience for our new normal.” Wonder is currently free and available on most web browsers. It has had more than 3.8 million participants and 200,000 hosts to date. Wonder has 45 employees and it has raised $12 million to date.
Regarding competition, Wonder said, “We think that the virtual events market is still in its early stages. The reason people get together is to build connections with others and to meet new people, and there still isn’t really any products out there where this feels natural and energizing. Wonder is designed for human interaction at its core. We’re less focused on event logistics and more on facilitating connections and conversations between people (we actually routinely have talks with companies like Hopin on how to integrate and partner).” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
