Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: Cloud revenue growth far outpaces on-premises Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Battery Ventures’ State of the OpenCloud 2022 report examines the landscape of cloud infrastructure and open-source software and offers operational best practices for cloud companies.
Cloud giants like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud have demonstrated significant growth durability — and profitability — at massive scale, despite the current macroeconomic environment. Billion-dollar businesses like Databricks (a Battery portfolio company) and Snowflake are built on top of these massive cloud vendors, and there is significant room to grow, as digital transformation accelerates across industries and more workloads shift to the cloud.
Heavy cloud growth Across four major infrastructure-software companies (MongoDB, Confluent, Elastic and Splunk), cloud revenue CAGR was at least 72% and as much as 200% from 2018 to 2022. On-premises CAGR, by contrast, ranged from 4% to 55%.
Overall, Battery predicts cloud spend currently represents about 25% of the $919 billion overall enterprise IT market spend in 2022, a proportion that will no doubt increase in the months and years to come given the potential for market disruption. Amid increasing pressure to improve productivity and efficiency and a high-inflation environment, Battery predicts we will see a step-change increase in cloud adoption across every industry and economy.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Many cloud companies are demonstrating robust growth and even profitability as the broader IT market remains relatively under-penetrated by cloud; there’s still plenty of room to grow,” said Danel Dayan, Battery vice president and one of the report’s authors.
“While it remains to be seen what will happen in the next few months in the technology industry, given the market downturn, we are confident that the cloud, and open-source software, will soon transform industries in ways we have never seen before,” Dayan added.
Methodology The Battery Ventures 2022 OpenCloud report relies upon publicly available data from Gartner, Pitchbook, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, CapIQ and company earnings reports. (Battery’s investments and exits are listed here.
) Read the full report from Battery Ventures.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
