Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cloud computing and virtualization company Citrix to be acquired for $16.5B Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Signage with logo at the Silicon Valley headquarters of cloud computing and virtualization company Citrix, Santa Clara, California, August 17, 2017. ( Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Citrix , a cloud computing and virtualization company used by companies including Microsoft, Google, and SAP, has revealed plans to be acquired by affiliates of global investment firm Vista Equity Partners, and an affiliate of Elliott Investment Management called Evergreen Coast Capital Corporation.
The all-cash deal is valued at $16.5 billion, representing a near 30 percent premium on Citrix’s market capitalization before rumors of a possible deal first started to emerge last month.
Founded in 1989, Citrix was originally known for its Windows-based remote access products, but over the past few decades the company has endeavored to move with the times, and now offers myriad technologies spanning cloud computing, servers, networking, and more. One of its flagship products is Citrix Workspace , a virtualization platform that helps enterprises deploy apps and desktops remotely, including securing all the devices that connect to a network.
Put simply, Citrix Workspace is well-positioned to flourish in a world that has had to rapidly embrace remote and hybrid working.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Over the past three decades, Citrix has established itself as the clear leader in secure hybrid work,” Citrix’s interim CEO and president Bob Calderoni said in a statement.
Remote workspace Workspace has been a core focus for Citrix as it evolves in an increasingly cloud-first world.
 Last year, Citrix doled out more than $2 billion for project management platform Wrike, so that Citrix could offer cloud-based collaborative work management smarts to its thousands of enterprise customers. This has also led Vista and Evergreen to Citrix’s door with wallets wide open.
Vista and Evergreen have indicated that they plan to combine Citrix with Tibco Software , a business intelligence and enterprise data management company that Vista acquired back in 2014 , to create what they call a “global digital workspace and data analytics leader.” “Together with Tibco, we will be able to operate with greater scale and provide a larger customer base with a broader range of solutions to accelerate their digital transformations and enable them to deliver the future of hybrid work,” Calderoni said.
But perhaps more important than that, Citrix will no longer be a publicly-traded company, which could afford it greater agility as it recalibrates for the future of work.
“As a private company, we will have increased financial and strategic flexibility to invest in high-growth opportunities, such as DaaS (desktop-as-service), and accelerate its ongoing cloud transition,” Calderoni added.
The deal — should it receive shareholder and regulatory approval — is expected to close by the middle of 2022.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
