Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 78% of consumers say they’re likely to promote a brand’s AR on social media Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
According to a new report by Camera IQ , 76% of consumers have already used AR, and more than half of those who have not yet tried AR say they hope to do so in the future. AR also has the potential to “go viral” — 78% of consumers say they are likely to share a brand’s AR experience on social media. More than four out of 10 say they are more likely to share an AR experience than other types of brand posts.
Augmented reality is the gateway to the metaverse because it transforms social media platforms into co-creative, mixed reality experiences. Camera IQ’s study takes a deep dive into consumer preferences and behavior surrounding augmented reality, social media and ecommerce.
 It reveals how brands can leverage AR in marketing today while laying the groundwork for their metaverse strategies.
Funny and flattering effects, AR games and AR product visualizations resonate with consumers. The most common experience consumers encounter is product visualizations at 39%. AR product visualizations also accelerate the buyer’s journey: 59% of consumers say they would be more likely to purchase a product they’ve seen visualized through AR.
Major brands like Bumble, Away, and Smashbox have demonstrated how augmented reality complements mainstream channels like social media, SEO, and influencer marketing campaigns. Mobile commerce and consumer behavior are moving further and further into the metaverse. In that landscape, AR is the missing piece that allows companies to offer the digital experiences that consumers expect.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! To conduct this study, Camera IQ surveyed 1,500 U.S. consumers in December 2021. Respondents’ ages ranged from 16 to 54 and older, with the majority falling between ages 18 and 44. The survey was carried out on a platform called Pollfish, whose global panel includes over 550MM consumers. Camera IQ also leveraged reputable third-party industry and consumer studies to validate the research and provide additional context.
Read the full report by Camera IQ.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
