Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages HTC unveils its Viverse vision of the metaverse Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Cher Wang , chairwoman of virtual reality hardware maker HTC , unveiled her company’s vision of the metaverse, known as Viverse.
One the eve of the Mobile World Congress event in Barcelona, Spain, Wang introduced a video and made some announcements related to the Viverse, which will make use of HTC’s Vive VR headsets.
HTC has a demo of an animated virtual world that it calls Viverse, which Wang said would be a safe and secure environment for kids and adults alike. It will be a space to customize, collaborate, and have fun.
“From the beginning, our Vive Reality vision has been to merge humanity with technology to unleash imagination,” Wang said in the video.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! HTC said it is unveiling its latest portable private 5G solution — the Reign Foundation — working closely with new HTC subsidiary, G-Reign, and in collaboration with Supermicro.
HTC also teamed up with Holoride to bring VR entertainment to car passengers. It showed a demo of its Vive Flow immersive VR glasses using Holoride’s immersive technology platform. HTC Vive and Holoride are showcasing their ride-ready glasses and in-car VR experience to select guests at MWC 2022 with a drive around Barcelona.
During the ride, passengers will be able to experience Holoride’s ‘elastic content’ which is able to match car movement so that experiences like games actually adapt in real-time to route length and type, driving styles, and location.
Wang said Viverse is present with VR applications today and will be coming in the future as AR and VR hardware advance further to deliver a “future where the impossible becomes possible.” In the Viverse, you will be able to work out at the gym from your living room, attend virtual concerts, and climb virtual glaciers. The technologies of the metaverse that will matter include VR, AR, AI, blockchain, and 5G, Wang said.
She said the tech should move to the background and experiences should come to the foreground.
“These are technologies that we should continue to innovate to carry us forward,” Wang said.
She said HTC supports Viverse as an open metaverse platform and will work with its partners to deliver the Viverse.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
