Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Journeys announces Karl Jacobs as Creative Ambassador Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Journeys , a popular shoe retailer, has announced a new partnership with Karl Jacobs and his company Night Media. Jacobs, who got his start with popular streamer MrBeast , is currently one of the top streamers on Twitch. He will serve as the retailer’s creative ambassador.
The shoe retailer is coming off of a record setting year of sales and operating profit. Karl Jacobs recently released his own line of merchandise, so he has thoughts on how to successfully market to teens. Jacobs will work with the company on campaigns for summer, back-to-school, and the holidays.
“We are excited to have Karl Jacobs join the Journeys’ family. He immediately stood out to us as someone who shares our passion for creativity, authenticity and self-expression — with unparalleled enthusiasm and a work ethic to match. He will play an integral role in our strategic approach to introducing ourselves and engaging with the gaming community in an authentic and meaningful way,” said Kari Irons, Senior Vice President of Marketing at Journeys. “Gaming is fueling youth culture right now and we know we need to earn our place and build trust with the community first. We are ecstatic for the value and expertise Karl brings in guiding us through this and also for our partnership with gaming firm Loaded in connecting us to creators and content partners like Karl, who share our core values and want to build long-lasting partnerships and connections.” Karl Jacobs added, “As the newly appointed Creative Ambassador for Journeys, I’m excited to combine my love for gaming, creativity and fashion to introduce a new generation of gamers as well as people in general to the brand.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Journeys worked with gaming firm Loaded to find Jacobs. With a lineup of shoes that are aimed at teens, Journeys is a natural fit for the streamer.
“Loaded’s Brand Advisory Business is helping brands such as Journeys enter the gaming zeitgeist in a more strategic and authentic way. Journeys understands that working with the gaming community shouldn’t be just a one-off campaign, but a long term initiative that is integrated into a brand’s marketing strategy,” said Nadia Tseng, Vice President of Strategic Partnerships at Loaded. “We are excited to continue working with Journeys on how they are engaging new audiences through gaming, creator and content partnerships.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
