Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Mana Interactive reveals a banking solution to reward gamers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Mana is a neo banking system for gamers.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Mana Interactive has unveiled a new payment and reward “neobanking” platform designed for video game lovers.
The Boston-based startup said it will enable users to take advantage of its Mana deposit account and Mana Visa Debit Card in a way that rewards both gaming activities and purchases across popular games.
Here’s what it means by “neobanking.” Mana has a unified platform gives players new incentives to engage with their favorite games and take advantage of being rewarded for everyday purchases. Rewards can then be redeemed through the Mana mobile app for game keys, gift cards, in-game currency, and more.
Added benefits include discounts on top game subscription services and exclusive access to events, gaming hardware, betas, demos, and more. It’s one more example of the Leisure Economy , or getting paid to play games.
Mana offers free and paid options Mana will offer two types of accounts: the free Mana Account and the subscription-based Mana Pro Account. Mana Pro requires a yearly subscription of $119.95 ($9.99/month) and offers boosted rewards and exclusive perks in addition to a high-end metal card.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Early adopters who sign up for Mana Pro during the waitlist period will be able to join the program at a discounted price of $69.95. Both accounts tie seamlessly into a gamer’s lifestyle, providing rewards, perks, and benefits that are meaningful to how they live their lives.
Support for the world’s top multiplayer games Several top games will be supported on Mana to bring the platform’s users the widest selection of games to earn rewards from playing. When it launches, Mana will immediately support some of the most iconic games currently available on consoles, PC and mobile.
Consumers can sign-up to the waitlist now at this link.
 Those who sign-up before the product launches this summer will receive a Day One badge on their Mana Rewards Account, and the first 1,000 to do so will receive 10,000 Mana Points to redeem in the shop.
Mana is also hosting a waitlist program that further rewards early-adopters for introducing others to the new digital financial platform and even more rewards for engaging with the brand’s channels. The more friends they refer and interact with Mana, the more rewards they earn.
Mana has partnered with MVB Bank Member FDIC to offer a deposit account to people 18 years of age or older.
Founded in 2021, Mana Interactive has secured over $7 million in seed funding.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
