To a degree, yes. Some antivirus programs can do things like warn you or block you from visiting a suspected phishing site. Others may also automatically block suspicious emails that appear to come from a malicious sender or contain phrasing common in phishing emails. However, you cannot count on an antivirus program to be a failsafe solution for phishing protection. You still need to be vigilant and "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/these-phishing-tactics-disguised-as-fun-on-social-media-heres-what-to-look-for/\">know what to look out for on your own when it comes to phishing, because an antivirus program won't be able to catch everything.
Any program running on your computer will require a certain amount of processing power to work, which can affect your computer's overall performance. If an antivirus program is just running in the background, it shouldn't really have any effect on your computer's performance. However, when actively running a scan of your system, antivirus software can noticeably "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/computing/why-is-my-computer-so-slow/\">slow down your computer.
 If this is the case, try to schedule antivirus scans at night, or at a time when you're not using your computer.
There is a common misconception that Macs are inherently immune to malware. But as Macs continue to increase in popularity, they're increasingly attractive targets for cybercriminals looking to deploy malware designed for the MacOS operating system. MacOS has a built-in antivirus solution called XProtect that can detect and remove malware. It works in the background and updates automatically to keep up with the latest threats, but it still may not catch everything that a third-party antivirus program will. So if you want to play it safe and boost the malware protection on your Mac, it's a good idea to add a third-party antivirus solution.
Black Friday 2023 Live Blog Can You Trust AI Photography? Best TV for 2023 Thanksgiving Travel Times Snoozing Is Fine Solar EV charging 6 Best TV Gifts Tech Money Home Wellness Home Internet Energy Deals Sleep Price Finder more Tech Services & Software Best Antivirus Software for 2023 Protect your computers and mobile devices from malware and viruses with the best antivirus software solutions available, no matter which platform you use.
Updated Sept. 12, 2023 9:00 p.m. PT Written by Clifford Colby Rae Hodge Alison DeNisco Rayome Attila Tomaschek Clifford Colby Managing Editor Expertise Tech from browser security to password managers and government programs from mail-in voting to federal assistance Rae Hodge Former senior editor Alison DeNisco Rayome Managing Editor Expertise Home Tips, including cooking, cleaning and appliances hacks Credentials National Silver Azbee Award for Impact/Investigative Journalism; National Gold Azbee Award for Online Single Topic Coverage by a Team; National Bronze Azbee Award for Web Feature Series Attila Tomaschek Expertise Attila has nearly a decade's worth of experience with VPNs and has been covering them for CNET since 2021. As CNET's VPN expert, Attila rigorously tests VPNs and offers readers advice on how they can use the technology to protect their privacy online and Why You Can Trust CNET 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25+ Years of Experience 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 10,000 11,000 12,000 13,000 14,000 15,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
Read how we test products and services.
What to consider Effectiveness Antivirus software runs virus scans for known viruses and malware, watch for shady websites, offer ransomware protection and monitor unexpected behavior that may be a sign of new viruses and malware. You want antivirus software that can successfully identify these unknown online threats without flagging too many false positives.
Light on system resources You don't want antivirus software that taxes your PC's resources. If after you install the program, websites open slowly, apps download or open sluggishly or file copies take longer than expected, you may want to try another service.
Cost and discounts Before you buy, check for discounts on a company's website. Another way to save: The prices we list above are for 10 devices -- if the company offered that package -- but you can trim your cost with antivirus packages if you need to cover three or five devices.
Privacy Companies say they anonymize this technical data as much as possible to protect your privacy. The security companies on our list post privacy policies on their websites, so read their privacy statements to learn what the companies do with the information you share.
Protection for other platforms Microsoft is by far the biggest target for viruses and malware. But Android is second, with just under 1% of apps installed on Android devices with Google Play Protect in the potentially harmful app, or PHA, category.
Table of Contents Top View details View details Sponsored View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details View details Table of Contents Top After spending hundreds, sometimes thousands, on a new PC, the last thing you need is to have it compromised. Unfortunately, that is a real possibility. Even the best PCs are susceptible to viruses and malware, no matter how much they cost. Regularly checking your computer's health can save you from headaches in the future -- whether from scammers or your computer just not working as it should. A great way to protect your device and personal information is by investing in the best antivirus software you can afford.
Are early Black Friday sales a good time to buy? Many retailers start "Black Friday" sales as early as Halloween, or even earlier. The quality of deals can vary early on, but as November progresses, many of the deals are as good as the deep discounts you’ll see during Thanksgiving weekend. See the best Black Friday deals we’ve found, and keep up with all the latest deals with our full Black Friday live blog coverage.
Windows devices account for nearly 70% of laptop or desktop operating systems, according to the latest data from Statcounter.
 Windows-targeted malware has a larger base of devices to infect, giving it more potential in the eyes of cybercriminals, so all our antivirus picks work on Windows.
":"mziuyc69iv64wlk","type":"heading"}"="" data-keep="" data-id="toc-852884df-9278-4948-9c2e-5f6f52f259ab-item-1">What's the best antivirus software overall? Currently, CNET's top pick for the best antivirus software is Microsoft Defender , the tech giant's free antivirus solution built into Windows 10 and Windows 11 machines. At CNET, we've spent years testing and researching dozens of online security and privacy tools like VPNs, password managers and antivirus software to help readers find the best solutions for their needs. Take a look through our recommended antivirus services below to see which one fits you best.
Note: Pricing for antivirus services can be complicated, since providers frequently offer low introductory prices to entice you to sign up for their services. After the first billing period -- typically a year or two, depending on the plan you purchase -- the amount you pay for the service may increase substantially (sometimes double the introductory rate). Be sure to check the terms of the subscription plan before you buy, so you won't get an unwelcome surprise when your subscription renews.
":"3h6uwoab0uvs8ww","type":"heading"}"="" data-keep="" data-id="toc-852884df-9278-4948-9c2e-5f6f52f259ab-item-2"> Best antivirus software of 2023 Show less Pros Built into Windows 10 and 11 and enabled by default Regularly updated Real-time protection Cons Resource-intensive No option to schedule scans from the UI Basic feature set Best free antivirus for Windows Microsoft Defender If you practice safe computing -- that is, you keep your software up to date, you use strong passwords (with the help of a password manager ), you steer clear of unsolicited emails and you don't click suspicious links that may be phishing attempts -- you probably can avoid zero-day attacks and ransomware attacks. And with the free Microsoft Defender Antivirus software running on your Windows PC, you have a malware protection safety net if you do let your guard down. In fact, it is one of the best antivirus software options.
(Note: Microsoft changed the name of Windows Defender to Microsoft Defender and has expanded the service to other platforms.) This free antivirus program is built into Windows, and it's turned on by default, the antivirus engine does its thing, and this antivirus solution will cover the basics of internet security. Microsoft pushes new updates frequently. Defender also lets you tune the level of protection you want, giving you control over blocking potentially unwanted apps and protecting folders and files from a ransomware attack.
Windows 10 and 11 will automatically disable its own Windows Defender antivirus when you install third-party antivirus. If you uninstall the third-party protection, Windows will turn on its own antivirus again.
Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Sponsored Black Friday 2023 Deal TotalAV Antivirus – Save 80% Save big this Black Friday! Protect your devices and those of your family, from viruses, malware and other online threats.
Complete protection for all devices Windows, Mac, Android and iOS compatible Safeguard your identity and online purchases Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Pros Full suite of online security tools Up to 10 users on one subscription Parental controls Cons Limited set of features on MacOS and iOS Price jumps significantly after first year No free version available Best antivirus subscription Norton 360 With LifeLock Select NortonLifeLock has consistently earned high marks from AV-Test , AV Comparatives and SE Labs for virus and malware detection. Norton antivirus provides excellent security software for PC, Mac and mobile devices. The company's products include Antivirus Plus, Norton Secure VPN, Norton 360 for Gamers, Norton 360 with LifeLock Select and more. A 10-device subscription for Norton 360 with LifeLock Select is normally $180 per year, but you can get your first year for $80 off. In addition to malware and virus protection for your computer and mobile device, this security suite provides 100GB of backup to the cloud, safe-browsing tools, a secure VPN, password manager, parental controls and LifeLock identity theft protection and fraud alert. While not all of those services are necessarily best in their respective class, getting them all in one package is a compelling option. Topping it off, Norton offers a free seven-day test drive of the suite, as well as a full refund "within 60 days of purchase for annual subscriptions and within 14 days of purchase for monthly subscriptions," according to Norton's site.
Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Pros Excellent free antivirus protection Lightweight and easy on PC resources Live customer support available for free users Cons Free version only available on Windows Fewer features on MacOS and iOS with paid version Can't schedule scans Best free antivirus Bitdefender Antivirus Free Edition If you'd like to take a step up in securing your PC without taxing your wallet, it's hard to beat Bitdefender's free antivirus software for Windows 10 and 11. The Windows security software offers real-time monitoring for viruses, malware, spyware and ransomware protection. Bitdefender Antivirus Free Edition is easy to set up and stays out of your way until you need it. And the protection this antivirus product offers is solid. Bitdefender antivirus software consistently earns top marks for its antivirus protection and usability from the respected AV-Test independent testing lab. The free antivirus version covers one Windows PC. For broader protection, you can choose Bitdefender Total Security or Bitdefender Antivirus Plus. The subscription antivirus suite lets you protect five or 10 devices (Windows, MacOS, iOS and Android), set up parental controls on a kid's computer and run a VPN.
Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Pros Real-time protection Includes Browser Guard for web browsers Easy to use, customizable interface Cons Certain protections only available for Windows Free trial is only seven days for mobile devices Free version doesn't include real-time protection Best malware removal service Malwarebytes Malwarebytes protects your PC from viruses or malware attacks, scoring reasonably well in recent independent testing for guarding against malware threats. But that's not really what Malwarebytes is known for. If you find yourself in trouble, the go-to disinfectant for many is Malwarebytes. You can get protection and disinfection for one device for $38 a year, regularly $45.
 To cover five devices -- any combination of Windows, MacOS and Android -- it's $100 for a year of antivirus software. To get the antivirus company's free antivirus version, download this trial version , which "downgrades" to a no-fee on-demand cleaner with fewer features that detects and removes viruses and malware when you run an on-demand antivirus scan after 14 days.
Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Other antivirus software to consider In addition to the four antivirus apps we recommend above, a handful of other anti-malware tools are worth considering among the best antivirus protection if you find them at a better price or just prefer to use one over our picks above.
Show less Good choice for antivirus subscription McAfee Total Protection It feels like McAfee Antivirus has been around forever, first on its own in the '80s, then as part of Intel starting in 2010, and then again on its own when Intel spun it off in 2017. And McAfee Total Protection has been around forever because quarter after quarter it creates solid, modern antivirus software that protects your PC. (In recent evaluations by AV-Test, it had high scores on both protection and performance.) McAfee Total Protection guards devices against viruses and offers ransomware protection, wards off malicious websites and includes a password manager for $30 for the first year. If you agree to auto-renew your antivirus suite subscription, you get access to McAfee ID Theft Protection Essentials, which monitors for ID fraud.
Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Best antivirus subscription for businesses Trend Micro Maximum Security Maybe this antivirus provider isn't as well known to consumers because of its focus on enterprise security, but Trend Micro antivirus security quietly brings its business expertise to the home with its Trend Micro Maximum Security tools. Trend Micro's software earns high marks from AV-Test -- consistently scoring well for detecting zero-day attacks and widespread viruses and malware. And Trend Micro does a good job of not taxing system resources.
Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Easy setup antivirus subscription ESET NOD32 Antivirus If you're looking for something easy to set up and use, ESET NOD32 antivirus may meet your needs. It earns high scores for usability and offers solid virus protection. A five-device option is $60 for a year, with a 30-day free trial.
Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less Show less Free anti-malware antivirus Sophos Home The free antivirus version of Sophos Home gives you virus protection for 10 Windows PCs or MacOS devices, and unlimited Android and iOS devices -- using the company's high-scoring anti-malware tool -- plus a 30-day trial of the company's malware-removal tool. Annual subscriptions typically cost $60, but right now you can sign up for less.
Photo Gallery 1/1 Show expert take Show less How we test antivirus software We're here to help you find the antivirus software that best fits your needs. These picks of the best antivirus programs are a combination of recommendations from independent third-party labs AV-Test , AV-Comparatives and SE Labs , as well as CNET's own anecdotal hands-on testing.
Note that antivirus software is only one piece of the cybersecurity puzzle. Cybercriminals are becoming more sophisticated, and the more steps you take to lock down your online security, the safer you'll be. A secure virtual private network can help protect your internet privacy, and a password manager will help you create and keep track of more secure login credentials. These tools are all essential in protecting your personal information.
Why we don't recommend Avast Test after test, Avast Antivirus for Windows performs well for malware detection with options ranging from Avast free antivirus software to Avast Premium Security. And we've included its antivirus in our list of recommended security app options before. But Avast was in the news for several months for its non-antivirus business, so we looked at the company, specifically reports at the end of 2019 that Avast allegedly collected user data with its browser plug-ins and antivirus software and then sold data it collected through its Jumpshot subsidiary in early 2020.
In response to the reports that his company gathered and sold the details of its customers' online activities, Avast CEO Ondrej Vlcek said in a statement that he understood that his company's actions raised questions of trust in his company. To address that, Avast terminated Jumpshot data collection in January 2020 and closed its operations because the data collection business wasn't in line with Avast's privacy priorities.
Those reports followed another in 2019 from Avast that its internal network was breached , possibly to insert malware into its CCleaner software, similar to an earlier CCleaner hack that occurred prior to Avast's acquiring the Windows utility.
Avast started saying the right things about taking its customers' privacy seriously , but it only came to that point after reacting to investigative reporting that revealed the Jumpshot practices. (The CCleaner revelations, while concerning, were self-disclosed, which is important to building user trust.) We hope Avast's more privacy-friendly policies mean that there will be no further Jumpshot-style activities and that it returns to glory as one of the best antivirus software options. In the meantime, we'd recommend using one of the many other solid choices in this realm (listed above).
Why we don't recommend Kaspersky Because the company has been in the news the past few years, let's talk about Kaspersky Lab -- specifically about the federal ban that blocks US government agencies from using Kaspersky Antivirus products.
Based in Moscow, Kaspersky Lab has for years produced some of the best antivirus software for business antivirus needs and home customers. But in 2017 the US government prohibited Kaspersky security cloud software on federal government computers because of alleged ties between Kaspersky and the Russian government.
Notably, the ban does not apply to its consumer products such as Kaspersky Total Security and Kaspersky Anti-Virus. But as with China-based Huawei , the question remains: If the federal government doesn't think the products are safe enough for its own devices, should consumers avoid them as well? In a statement sent to CNET, the company said, "Kaspersky Lab has no ties to any government, and the company has never, nor will ever, engage in cyber offensive activities. Kaspersky Lab maintains that no public evidence of any wrongdoing has been presented by the US government, and that the US government's actions against Kaspersky Lab were unconstitutional." In Kaspersky's favor, it continues to earn top scores and awards for virus and malware detection and endpoint protection from independent testing labs. And it's reasonably priced.
In the end, even though no one has ever publicly produced a "smoking gun" linking the company to Russian intrigue, we think any of the options listed above is a safer bet. And if you are a US government employee or work with the federal government, you'll want to steer clear of Kaspersky internet security products -- and perhaps use one of the antivirus software products mentioned here instead.
Antivirus basics: What to look for Picking the best antivirus software for Windows means finding one that keeps your PC safe, doesn't take up a lot of system resources, is easy to use and stays out of the way till you need it. Here's what to look for.
Effectiveness: Antivirus software runs virus scans for known viruses and malware, of course, and can offer real-time protection. And it watches for shady websites and suspicious links to keep you out of trouble. It can also offer ransomware protection and monitor unexpected behavior that may be a sign of new and not-yet-identified viruses and malware. You want antivirus software that can successfully identify these unknown online threats without flagging too many false positives.
Light on system resources: You don't want antivirus software that taxes your PC's resources. If after you install the program, websites open slowly, apps download or open sluggishly or file copies take longer than expected, you may want to try another service. The good news is, all our picks offer a free trial or money-back guarantee to let you try out the antivirus program, so if your system feels sluggish after installation, you may want to keep looking.
Cost and discounts: Don't just pay the sticker price for antivirus protection. Before you buy, check for discounts on a company's website. Another way to save: The prices we list above are for 10 devices -- if the company offered that package -- but you can trim your cost with antivirus packages if you need to cover three or five devices. You may also find discounts on an app's Amazon page.
Privacy: To be effective, antivirus software needs to monitor what's going on with your PC, check in with company servers about unusual behavior and should provide sound banking protection. The companies say they anonymize this technical data as much as possible to protect your privacy. But if you want to know more, the security companies on our list post privacy policies on their websites, so read their privacy statements to learn what the companies do with the information you share.
Protection for other platforms: Microsoft is by far the biggest target for viruses and malware. But Android is second , with just under 1% of apps installed on Android devices with Google Play Protect in the potentially harmful app, or PHA, category.
The threat to MacOS and especially iOS is low, in part because of the tight control Apple has over its app stores. While the Mac does come under attack via side-loaded apps, it's rare, and if you download apps only from the Mac and iOS app stores and keep your guard up when clicking links and download files, you should be OK without an antivirus app on Apple devices.
Antivirus FAQ Can antivirus protect against phishing? To a degree, yes. Some antivirus programs can do things like warn you or block you from visiting a suspected phishing site. Others may also automatically block suspicious emails that appear to come from a malicious sender or contain phrasing common in phishing emails. However, you cannot count on an antivirus program to be a failsafe solution for phishing protection. You still need to be vigilant and know what to look out for on your own when it comes to phishing, because an antivirus program won't be able to catch everything.
Will antivirus slow down my computer? Any program running on your computer will require a certain amount of processing power to work, which can affect your computer's overall performance. If an antivirus program is just running in the background, it shouldn't really have any effect on your computer's performance. However, when actively running a scan of your system, antivirus software can noticeably slow down your computer.
 If this is the case, try to schedule antivirus scans at night, or at a time when you're not using your computer.
Does my Mac need antivirus? There is a common misconception that Macs are inherently immune to malware. But as Macs continue to increase in popularity, they're increasingly attractive targets for cybercriminals looking to deploy malware designed for the MacOS operating system. MacOS has a built-in antivirus solution called XProtect that can detect and remove malware. It works in the background and updates automatically to keep up with the latest threats, but it still may not catch everything that a third-party antivirus program will. So if you want to play it safe and boost the malware protection on your Mac, it's a good idea to add a third-party antivirus solution.
Services and Software Guides VPN Best VPN Best iPhone VPN Best Free VPN Best Android VPN Best Mac VPN Best Mobile VPN Best VPN for Firestick Best VPN for Windows Fastest VPN Best Cheap VPN Cybersecurity Best Password Manager Best Antivirus Best Identity Theft Protection Best LastPass Alternative Streaming Services Best Live TV Streaming Service Best Streaming Service Best Free TV Streaming Service Best Music Streaming Services Web Hosting & Websites Best Web Hosting Best Minecraft Server Hosting Best Website Builder Other Services & Software Best Dating Sites Best Language Learning Apps Best Weather App Best Stargazing Apps Best Cloud Storage Best Resume Writing Services New Coverage on Operating Systems Show more Show less More From CNET Deals Reviews Best Products Gift Guide Shopping Extension Videos Software Downloads About About CNET Newsletters Sitemap Careers Policies Cookie Settings Help Center Licensing Privacy Policy Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information instagram youtube tiktok facebook twitter flipboard
