Anyone who accesses the internet from a computer, tablet or smartphone can benefit from using a VPN. You don't have to be an activist, government dissident or journalist to need a VPN; the rise of third-party data brokers, cross-site advertising trackers, IP address collection and mobile geo-targeting have all combined to create an online browsing environment that poses significant threats to everyday users' basic privacy. Because a VPN encrypts your connection, your browsing data is protected from your internet service provider (and any government entities who request your ISP data), and your network administrator in most cases. A VPN can also shield your private information -- like passwords, usernames and bank or shopping details -- from anyone snooping on your network.
"_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/protonvpn-review/\">Proton VPN's free tier is the only free VPN we've come across so far that's worth using. It costs a lot of money to operate a VPN, and free VPN services usually make up for the lack of subscription revenue by selling user data. And in addition to being limited in usability and light on security, many free VPNs are fronts for malware distribution, which is why it's generally best to avoid them. However, Proton VPN's unlimited free tier is fast, secure and can be used for most online activities, including streaming Netflix. But if you're on a budget and want access to a premium VPN solution, you can also take a look at our picks for the "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/best-cheap-vpn/\">best cheap VPNs.
A mobile VPN is simply a VPN you can use on your mobile device like your iPhone or Android phone. All of the providers we recommend have mobile versions of their desktop clients. You can use a mobile-focused VPN app to ensure greater data privacy designed for your whole device. Mobile VPNs also generally have a smaller memory footprint, and require less processing power than desktop VPNs, so they tend to yield faster connection speeds and don't eat up your battery as quickly. Keep in mind, however, that most mobile VPN clients will use a lighter form of encryption than a desktop client to achieve those smartphone speeds. So be sure to check your VPN apps' settings to ensure you're using the apps' strongest encryption if your privacy needs are heightened. Our top three VPN picks all have excellent, easy-to-use mobile VPN app options for their services. Some VPNs will only work with one type of mobile platform -- like iOS or Android -- and some are universally compatible. To find the right mobile VPN for you, check out our mobile-specific VPN guides below. We routinely update them with our retesting information, so check back often.
"_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/you-really-should-be-using-a-vpn-on-your-phone-heres-how-to-set-it-up-in-under-10-minutes/\">How to Set Up a VPN on Your Smartphone "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/best-android-vpn/\">Best Android VPNs for 2023 "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/best-iphone-vpn/\">Best iPhone VPNs of 2023 VPNs are perfectly legal to use in most countries. There's nothing wrong with taking steps to protect your privacy online, and you shouldn't have to worry that using a VPN as part of that process will get you in any kind of legal trouble.
However, there are countries where VPNs are either banned or outright illegal. If you're using a VPN in a country like China, Iran, Oman, Russia, Turkmenistan, UAE or Belarus, you may find yourself in legal trouble. The irony here is that these are the countries where internet censorship and surveillance are most common. In those countries, you'll need to make sure you use a VPN that provides "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/all-the-vpn-terms-you-need-to-know/\">strong obfuscation so your VPN traffic is disguised as ordinary HTTPS traffic, meaning government entities won't even know you're using a VPN in the first place.
But you won't run into any trouble with the law for using a VPN across most of the world. One important reminder, though: VPNs are legal in most places, but engaging in illegal activity online is still illegal regardless of whether you're using a VPN.
If you live in a country that censors its media or are traveling to one, "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/what-is-geo-blocking-and-how-you-can-bypass-it/\">georestricted content is a pain. You can use a VPN to circumvent censorship or access your home country's normal media content for an "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/best-streaming-service-of-2022/\">online streaming service like Netflix, Hulu, Amazon Prime Video or Disney Plus. Pick a VPN that lets you manually select which country you want to connect through and has something called "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/all-the-vpn-terms-you-need-to-know/\">obfuscation.
 (Our top three picks offer this.) You don't always need to use the obfuscation feature to unblock Netflix, but since streaming services actively try to block VPN connections, obfuscation can help because it disguises your VPN traffic as regular internet traffic.
If you're looking to try out other VPNs, choose one with a large number of IP addresses, preferably 10,000 or more. This is because one of the ways Netflix and others block VPNs is by blacklisting known VPN IPs -- and if your VPN has tens of thousands of IPs, there's a better chance that you'll be able to connect to an IP address that Netflix hasn't flagged.
Once you have your VPN installed, connect to the country whose content you wish to view, restart your browser and go to the streaming site. If your VPN is working, the site should treat you as a resident of your selected country and serve you content assigned to that audience. If you're still having trouble, you can try using incognito mode on your browser or try clearing your cookies and cache.
Your first and most apparent indication that your VPN is working is that your IP address will change and your location will be registered as that of the VPN server you're connecting through. You can check this on a site like "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.whatismyipaddress.com\">whatismyipaddress.com.
You'll also want to make sure your VPN is protecting your privacy and not leaking any of your data outside of the VPN tunnel, thus exposing it to your ISP and other entities that may be monitoring your online activity. You can check for leaks by going to a site like dnsleaktest.com or ipleak.net. If your location is being registered as the VPN server location, and your leak tests turn up negative, then you know your VPN is working to protect your privacy.
A remote-access VPN uses public infrastructure like the internet to provide remote users secure access to their network. This is particularly important for organizations and their corporate networks. It's crucial when employees connect to a public hotspot and use the internet for sending work-related emails. A VPN client on the user's computer or mobile device connects to a VPN gateway on the company's network. This gateway will typically require the device to authenticate its identity. It will then create a network link back to the device that allows it to reach internal network resources such as file servers, printers and intranets, as if it were on the same local network.
This is when the VPN technology uses a gateway device to connect the entire network in one location to a network in another location. The majority of site-to-site VPNs that connect over the internet use IPsec. IPsec-based encryption protocols are often considered by VPN specialists to be less secure against modern surveillance. Rather than using the public internet, it is also normal to use multiprotocol label switching clouds as the main transport for site-to-site VPNs.
VPNs are often defined between specific computers, and in most cases, they are servers in separate data centers. However, new hybrid-access situations have now transformed the VPN gateway in the cloud, typically with a secure link from the cloud service provider into the internal network.
The best VPN for you depends on your needs when using a VPN.
VPNs for crucial privacy and security If you're a journalist, a lawyer or a professional in any other privacy-sensitive field, forget about speed and price when choosing a VPN. Focus, instead, entirely on security. Your VPN may be somewhat slower but, for both VPNs and presidential motorcades, speed is always the trade-off for privacy. Avoid free VPNs and "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/proxy-vs-vpn-a-browser-based-proxy-isnt-a-vpn-but-you-might-want-one-anyway/\">browser-based VPNs.
 If you're concerned with government monitoring in your current country, choose a VPN headquartered outside of the country you're currently in, and avoid choosing a VPN with a jurisdiction in an allied country. For example, US journalists should avoid VPNs with a jurisdiction in "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/are-us-based-vpns-trustworthy-heres-why-i-dont-recommend-them/\">the US or other Five Eyes countries.
 Keep an eye on encryption: Your VPN should offer a protocol called OpenVPN TCP (for its mobile apps, IKEv2 is fine). Right now, the VPN we recommend most for critical privacy is "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/expressvpn-review/\">ExpressVPN.
VPNs for working from home If you're working from home, you may be sharing your internet connection with multiple devices and family members or roommates. That's a lot of simultaneous connections to a VPN and a lot of drag on a network. Pick a VPN that lets you use one subscription on as many devices as possible and has excellent speeds so your Wi-Fi isn't bogged down. If your job involves handling sensitive information like financial or medical records, however, your priority VPN criteria is security. Our top three VPN picks are the most secure we've found, and each has a different number of connections they'll allow for a base-level subscription. Depending on your budget and home office requirements, ExpressVPN, Surfshark and NordVPN are all great options for working from home. There are a few other factors worth considering for a home office VPN, though, so check out our guide to "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/how-to-pick-the-right-vpn-now-that-youre-working-from-home/\">picking the right VPN for working at home.
VPNs for gaming Most VPNs are chosen based on having a good balance of speed, security and cost. But if you want a VPN specifically to connect to game servers in another country, speed is everything. Free VPNs won't be fast enough, but, fortunately, high-end security won't be a cost driver, which gives you more "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/best-cheap-vpn/\">options at modest prices.
 Since "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/how-to-speed-up-your-vpn-connection/\">all VPNs reduce speed -- many by half or more -- that means picking one from the set that "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/fastest-vpn/\">performed best in our speed tests.
 In our latest tests, NordVPN took the lead as the fastest VPN, though you can get excellent speeds through Surfshark via the WireGuard protocol as well as with ExpressVPN. If you're focused on VPNs for game consoles, have a look at "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/best-vpn-for-xbox/\">our best VPNs for Xbox and "_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer nofollow\" href=\"https://www.cnet.com/tech/services-and-software/how-to-set-up-a-vpn-on-xbox/\">our primer on installing them.
 Before choosing the one right for your needs, visit the VPN's official website to see whether they offer servers specifically aimed at gaming in the countries where you most want to connect to other players.
Tech Money Home Wellness Home Internet Energy Deals Sleep Price Finder more Tech Services & Software Best VPN Service 2023: VPNs Tested by Our Experts The best VPNs for private streaming, gaming and torrenting, rated by our expert staff.
Updated Nov. 6, 2023 4:00 a.m. PT Written by Attila Tomaschek Russell Holly Rae Hodge Attila Tomaschek Expertise Attila has nearly a decade's worth of experience with VPNs and has been covering them for CNET since 2021. As CNET's VPN expert, Attila rigorously tests VPNs and offers readers advice on how they can use the technology to protect their privacy online and Russell Holly Expertise 7 years experience as a smartphone reviewer and analyst, 5 years experience as a competitive cyclist Credentials Author of Taking your Android Tablets to the Max Rae Hodge Former senior editor David Gewirtz Why You Can Trust CNET 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300 2400 2500 Speed Tests 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Eval. Points 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 VPNs Tested We intensively test each VPN, making sure it meets our standards for privacy, speed and usability.
How we test VPNs Editors' choice 2023 Show less Best Overall VPN ExpressVPN Privacy protection and fast speed See Price at ExpressVPN Savings 49% off with 12-mo plan (+3 free months) Pros Unmatched transparency Top-notch security with no leaks detected Excellent for streaming Cons Expensive Only five simultaneous connections Owned by Kape Technologies Price $13 a month, $60 for six months or $100 for a year Latest tests No leaks detected, 18% speed loss in 2023 tests Network 3,000-plus servers in 160 locations across 94 countries Jurisdiction British Virgin Islands Full Review ExpressVPN is one of the fastest VPNs we've tested, registering an 18% speed loss in our latest tests in February and March of 2023. Its apps for iOS and Android are designed with a streamlined approach aimed at connecting fast without fuss. A single button on its landing screen directs you to connect quickly, with the only accompanying option a drop-down server location selector with your fastest nearby city selected by default.
ExpressVPN's other options -- its security and privacy tools, account and settings options, and support page -- are all kept neatly tucked away under a garden-variety three-bar icon in the screen's top left corner. And they're worth checking into. ExpressVPN has included an on-board IP address checker, along with two leak testers and a password generator.
In the past year, ExpressVPN increased its independent third-party audit count, published details about its TrustedServer deployment process, joined the i2Coalition to call for improved VPN industry ethics, and released the open-source Lightway encryption protocol.
All of our top-rated VPNs have wide compatibility across platforms and operating systems, but ExpressVPN's collection of setup guides, detailed FAQs and troubleshooting articles give it a clear advantage for users. So does its 24/7 customer support, and its no-questions-asked, 30-day money back guarantee.
The company has been in business since 2009, and ExpressVPN has a substantial network of more than 3,000 RAM-only servers spread across 160 locations in 94 countries. ExpressVPN's best plan offers five simultaneous connections for $100 a year (which includes three extra months, for a limited-time deal totaling 15 months of service). You can also opt for a $13 per-month plan, or pay $60 for six months.
Show expert take Show less Show less Best Cheap VPN Surfshark Extensive features at a great price See Price at Surfshark Savings $2.23/mo with 24-mo plan (+3 free months) Pros Lots of unique security features Unlimited simultaneous connections RAM-only server network Cons Inconsistent speed performance 14 Eyes jurisdiction (Netherlands) No transparency reports Price $48 for the first year (then $60 annually) or $13 a month. Two-year plans are $60 for the first two years combined (then $60 annually) Latest tests No leaks detected, 40% speed loss in 2023 tests Network 3,200-plus servers in 100 countries Jurisdiction Netherlands Full Review Surfshark boasts an impressive suite of privacy and security features, unlimited simultaneous connections, easy-to-use interface and expansive global network of more than 3,200 servers in 100 countries. And it's still significantly cheaper than most of its competitors. That's what helped Surfshark earn CNET's Editors' Choice for Best Value VPN in 2022.
Along with standard VPN features such as a kill switch and DNS leak protection , some of the more notable Surfshark features include camouflage mode (which hides the fact you're using a VPN), split-tunneling, NoBorders mode (which lets you use Surfshark in regions where VPNs are restricted) and multihop VPN connections. You'll also get access to Surfshark's CleanWeb technology, which blocks ads and malware and helps you avoid phishing attacks.
One innovation we're excited to see Surfshark roll out over the next year is its Nexus network, which connects the VPN's entire network of servers together and allows you to choose multiple servers to route your connection through. The functionality is somewhat similar to Tor , but Surfshark says it's faster. With its Dynamic MultiHop, IP Randomizer and IP Rotator functions, the Nexus network can give you a few extra layers of protection while you use the VPN -- which can be particularly beneficial to users with critical privacy needs.
Surfshark says it doesn't log any user activity. And although no-logging claims are virtually impossible to prove with 100% certainty, German cybersecurity firm Cure53 declared Surfshark's security to be "solid" in its 2021 security audit of the VPN. Surfshark passed its first independent no-logs audit in January.
Since February 2022, Surfshark and NordVPN have had the same corporate parent , but Surfshark said it is legally bound not to share any information between the entities that would go against its privacy policy or terms of service.
 We didn't find any language in either document that would indicate Surfshark has any obligation to share user data with its parent company or any sibling companies, which include NordVPN.
Surfshark used to consistently rate as one of the fastest VPNs available, but we've been disappointed with its inconsistent speeds recently. The 40% speed loss we measured in February and March of 2023 was more than double the 19% speed loss we measured in 2022. Though speeds through WireGuard were impressive, registering only an 8% speed loss, the 76% speed loss we registered through OpenVPN dragged Surfshark's overall speed rating down considerably. The company tells us that it is working on resolving the OpenVPN speed issues.
In our tests, Surfshark had no problems unblocking Netflix and Amazon Prime Video content, but we did run into a fair bit of trouble accessing Disney Plus. After testing various servers in the US and other countries where Disney Plus is available, we were finally able to access the content when we connected to a server in Boston. You may need to test a few servers yourself before gaining access to Disney Plus content with Surfshark.
Surfshark offers cheaper introductory prices that jump after the first billing cycle. Even so, Surfshark manages to keep its prices lower than most other VPNs -- helping it earn CNET's Editors' Choice for Best Value. The yearly plan starts out at $48 for the first year, then jumps to $60 for any additional years of service. If you opt for the two-year plan, you'll pay $53 up front for the initial two years combined, plus two free months, then $60 per year for any additional years. Surfshark's monthly plan stays constant at $13 a month. If you're not satisfied with the service for any reason, Surfshark offers a 30-day money-back guarantee.
Show expert take Show less Show less Best Connectivity NordVPN Reliable VPN with multi-device use See Price at NordVPN Pros Among the fastest VPNs Tons of features Diskless RAM-only server infrastructure Cons No transparency reports Ambiguous corporate structure Only six simultaneous connections allowed Price $79 for the first two years or $60 for the first year (then $100 per year afterwards) or $12 a month Latest tests No leaks detected, 10% speed loss in 2023 tests Network 5,600-plus servers in 84 locations across 59 countries Jurisdiction Panama Full Review NordVPN is one of the most recognized brands in the VPN field. It offers a generous simultaneous connection count, with six simultaneous connections through its network, where nearly all other providers offer five or fewer. NordVPN also offers a dedicated IP option, for those looking for a different level of VPN connection, and the ability to VPN into Tor. More than half of Nord's 5,000-plus server fleet is optimized for peer-to-peer sharing, though Nord has blocked torrenting in 14 countries.
In our latest test rounds we noticed a few hiccups in Nord's killswitch when using its iOS app, which could be a concern for torrenters. However, Nord has a sideloaded iOS app available on its website that it recommends for users. In our most recent speed tests , NordVPN's overall speed performance and consistency helped it climb to the top of our list of fastest VPNs. In February and March of 2023, we lost only 10% of base internet speeds through NordVPN's servers.
NordVPN doesn't accept PayPal payments, but you can purchase a subscription with any major credit or debit card, AmazonPay, Google Pay or ACH transfer. If you'd rather pay anonymously, you can pay with a variety of cryptocurrencies, including bitcoin, ethereum, tether and dogecoin. NordVPN has also partnered with a handful of retail stores like Staples, BestBuy and Walmart where you can even purchase your VPN with cash.
Show expert take Show less Show less Open-Source VPN ProtonVPN The only free plan we recommend See Price at ProtonVPN Savings 50% off with 24-mo plan Pros Highly transparent Open-source Unlimited free plan Cons No live chat support Split tunneling only available on Android and Windows Occasional speed dips Savings 50% off with 24-mo plan Latest tests No leaks detected, 9% speed loss in 2020 tests Network 1,700-plus servers in 91 locations across 64 countries Jurisdiction Switzerland Full Review Proton VPN is a solid choice for VPN power users and anyone with critical security needs , but it's also excellent for casual VPN users who are simply looking to give their online privacy a boost or access geographically restricted content. It's fast, easy to use across all platforms and can unblock streaming services like Netflix , Disney Plus, HBO Max and Amazon Prime Video.
Proton VPN hasn't been around nearly as long as some of its peers like ExpressVPN and NordVPN, but in a few short years, it has earned a sturdy reputation for security and transparency. Much of that reputation was built on the back of Proton Mail's already established strength as a secure email solution, but Proton VPN has become a solid product on its own merit since it launched in 2017.
All of its apps across platforms are fully open-source, making Proton VPN the only provider in our top five to have its software's source code publicly available for anyone to scrutinize. The apps are also routinely audited by third-party cybersecurity professionals who confirmed that "no important security issues were identified" during their latest audit.
Proton VPN has all the standard security features you'd expect from any VPN provider worth its salt, including a kill switch , DNS leak protection and AES 256-bit encryption. The provider also offers additional security protections like an ad/malware blocker, Tor over VPN and a stealth protocol to help cloak your VPN connection and bypass firewalls.
But the pièce de résistance of Proton VPN's security suite is its fleet of Secure Core servers. Essentially, these servers operate in the same way as other VPN providers' multi-hop functionality does, but Proton's Secure Core servers are wholly owned by the company, equipped with hard disk encryption and housed in secure data centers in a defunct military base in Iceland and in underground bunkers in Switzerland and Sweden. Route your traffic through Proton's Secure Core servers first to add a robust layer of physical and technical protection before exiting through another VPN server in a different country.
And if you're looking for a free VPN , look no further than Proton VPN, because its unlimited free tier is truly impressive, and really the only free VPN we've encountered that's worth using. It lacks support for torrenting and doesn't include all the bells and whistles as the paid tiers, but Proton VPN's free tier is secure and doesn't put limits on speed, data or usage time like most other free VPNs do. Free users get access to servers in three countries (US, NL and JP) and can connect one device at a time.
Proton VPN's paid plans cost $72 per year or $10 per month and include access to servers in 67 countries and support for 10 simultaneous connections. Paid plans also include a 30-day, money-back guarantee. Read our Proton VPN review.
Show expert take Show less Show less Best Cheap Alternative PIA Budget-friendly and transparent See Price at PIA Savings $40 per year or $12 per month (3-year plans available at $79 every three years) Pros Open-source and transparent Budget-friendly Unlimited simultaneous connections RAM-only server architecture Cons Buggy features US jurisdiction Trouble accessing streaming content Latest Tests No leaks detected, 24% speed loss in 2023 tests Network 35,000 servers in 91 countries Jurisdiction United States Price $40 per year or $12 per month (3-year plans available at $79 every three years) Private Internet Access, often abbreviated as PIA, is a budget-friendly VPN that's one of the best in the business when it comes to transparency. Yes, concerns associated with its US jurisdiction may be a dealbreaker for VPN users with critical online privacy needs.
 However, the company seems to be doing everything in its power to offset those concerns and appeal to privacy-conscious users. PIA's no-logs policy was independently audited in 2022, and it releases a semiannual transparency report and has had its no-logs claims tested in the wild on more than one occasion. All of PIA's software is also fully open source, meaning that its source code is publicly available for anyone to inspect, which is still a relatively rare degree of transparency for a VPN. Proton VPN is the only other open-source VPN service among CNET's top picks.
PIA offers industry-standard AES 256-bit encryption along with DNS leak protection and a kill switch.
 It also offers an advanced kill switch feature that won't let you connect to the internet at all unless you're connecting through the VPN -- a great option for critical situations where you don't want to risk going online without first connecting to the VPN. Additional privacy features include multihop connections, obfuscation and an ad tracker and malware blocker feature called MACE. PIA's RAM-only server architecture also helps ensure user privacy because data is theoretically never stored to a hard disk and is completely wiped whenever the server is turned off or rebooted.
In terms of privacy and transparency, PIA is nearly on the same level as ExpressVPN. While ExpressVPN isn't open source and doesn't publish transparency reports in the traditional sense, it has an extensive Trust Center that thoroughly dives into all of its transparency initiatives, including each of the 12 independent security audits it completed in 2022. PIA told CNET that it's working on expanding its transparency reporting efforts, so hopefully we'll start seeing a regular cadence with PIA's third-party audit reports in the future.
If you're looking for a speedy VPN, PIA does fairly well. It's not the fastest VPN we've tested, but its 24% speed loss is still respectable and good for third place behind NordVPN (10% speed loss) and ExpressVPN (18% speed loss). Considering that most VPNs will cut your regular internet speeds by 50% or more, PIA's speeds trend toward the faster end of the spectrum and are plenty fast enough for just about any online activity.
While PIA does most things well, it struggles in a few areas, particularly related to streaming. We had trouble unblocking certain streaming services on both desktop and through its Amazon Fire TV Stick app. OpenVPN connections through the Fire TV Stick app never successfully unblocked content during our testing (although WireGuard connections were successful). And PIA's split tunneling feature may conflict with certain services on your Windows machine and fail to work properly. So if you're looking to PIA to unblock all of your streaming objectives, you may be left disappointed. Other top VPNs like ExpressVPN, Surfshark and NordVPN performed far better during CNET's streaming tests, especially on Amazon's Fire TV Stick.
However, if you're on a strict budget, but need a privacy-focused VPN that can capably handle most of what you'd want to accomplish online, then PIA is still a solid choice. It's one of the cheapest VPNs , available at $40 a year, $12 a month or $79 every three years. That makes it the most budget-friendly VPN in CNET's list of the best VPNs -- even cheaper than Surfshark, CNET's Editors' Choice best value VPN. While PIA doesn't quite stack up to Surfshark in terms of features and performance, it's a good alternative for people who are looking for a low-cost VPN. Each PIA subscription plan comes with a 30-day money-back guarantee, in case you decide within 30 days that the service isn't for you.
Show expert take Show less Show less Best Beginner VPN IPVanish Simple, newbie-friendly interface See Price at IPVanish Savings 66% off with 12-mo plan Pros Unlimited simultaneous connections Simple, user-friendly interface 24/7 customer support with live chat and phone support Cons IPVanish identified during DNS leak tests US jurisdiction Buggy features with platform limitations Price $12 a month or $54 for the first year (then $90 annually) Latest tests No leaks detected, 26% speed loss in 2023 tests Network 2,000-plus servers in 75-plus locations across 52 countries Jurisdiction United States Full Review A big win for IPVanish is its fun, configurable interface, which makes it an ideal client for those who are interested in learning how to understand what a VPN does under the hood.
If you're looking for the ability to do some precision tuning to your VPN connection, IPVanish is a solid bet. With a bevy of switches controlling things like the kill switch, split tunneling, VPN protocol and LAN connection allowance, IPVanish is an app for the methodical tech tweaker who enjoys having exact control over their mobile internet traffic.
IPVanish has long been geared toward peer-to-peer traffic and is a solid choice for torrenters who are looking for a VPN that comes with a SOCKS5 proxy.
With its newly redesigned apps for Windows and Android , IPVanish manages to pack the same extensive suite of digital knobs and dials into a refreshingly clean mobile interface to impressive effect.
Its multiplatform flexibility is also ideal for people focused on finding a Netflix-friendly VPN.
The 26% speed loss we measured through IPVanish in our most recent speed tests is a significant improvement over the 58% speed loss we measured in 2022. However, we noticed that IPVanish's Quick Connect feature still doesn't always connect you to the best available server, so if you want to optimize your speeds, you may need to connect manually to a server showing a lighter load by selecting the Locations option in the app.
Charging $11 for its monthly plan , IPVanish is trying to move you toward its yearly program, which costs $48 for the first year, but then jumps to $90 for subsequent years of service. The provider offers a 30-day money-back guarantee, but only if you purchase the yearly plan -- which could be a disappointment to anyone who purchased a monthly subscription and decided they didn't like it.
That said, the company gets kudos for allowing unlimited simultaneous connections. We also liked its connection kill-switch feature, a must for anyone serious about protecting their privacy while surfing.
Show expert take Show less What is a VPN? A VPN, or virtual private network, is an online service that provides a mobile app, desktop app or other software that encrypts your internet traffic to help boost your privacy online. A VPN also prevents your internet service provider from tracking which websites or apps you're using and stops most of those websites and apps from seeing your actual geographic location, allowing you to bypass content blocks in some countries to access critical news and educational information, while also opening up your streaming entertainment options. The best VPN delivers a strong level of privacy protection without compromising on performance. We strongly recommend using a good VPN for everyday use as well as for work, particularly if your work involves handling sensitive information.
At CNET, we rigorously test each virtual private network across major platforms to find the ones that provide exceptional privacy, reliability, speed and value. This list is constantly being updated as we actively test VPNs and look at the latest research, so expect this guide to change throughout the year as we put each VPN through its paces. This year, we've retested our top picks for connection speed and retested ExpressVPN from the ground up to make sure it still deserved our Editors' Choice as best overall VPN. We also recently published a full review of Private Internet Access , and we're taking a fresh look at the best VPNs for iPhone this month.
What is the best VPN in 2023? ExpressVPN retained CNET Editors' Choice Award for best overall VPN after its 2023 review. It maintains its position among other virtual private network services thanks to its dedication to privacy and strong speeds.
Surfshark is a close second among our picks. In 2022, it also earned a CNET Editors' Choice Award as our VPN value pick, thanks to its low first-year price support for unlimited devices.
NordVPN , our third choice, is a die-hard heavy hitter. It costs more than Surfshark but less than Express, has an enormous network that's constantly getting faster and more secure, and is easily the most reliable service we've tested.
Each VPN service in the list below has excellent value for a specific use case, and we point out the ideal user for each one. The array of options available means there's a VPN service suited to your needs, whether your privacy needs are casual or critical.
 Also, consider jumping on one of these VPN deals , which many of our top picks are offering.
":"8l47o0iocakehal","type":"heading"}"="" data-id="toc-dab293a4-bef1-4902-86b6-3a4565bc524d-item-3"> Other VPNs we've tested Not every VPN can be a favorite. These are ones we reviewed, but they're not full-throated recommendations for one reason or another, including limited features and concerns over adequately hiding your identity.
":"4k1zuouu6gcdtbi","type":"heading"}"=""> Hotspot Shield Hotspot Shield VPN's TLS-based Hydra Catapult protocol, US jurisdiction, 128-bit AES encryption support and large percentage of virtual servers might strip away our trust in its ability to provide more privacy protections than its competitors -- but those are all key components to its ability to achieve the blazing speeds it delivered during its most recent speed tests.
It's the second-fastest VPN I've tested , effortlessly delivers smooth-streaming media and can dance between server connections without missing a beat, no matter how many interruptions you throw at it. A 26% speed loss puts it in second place, falling behind Surfshark -- which lost just 16.9% of its speed the last time I tested it -- and knocking ExpressVPN down to third place with a 51.8% speed loss at last measurement. Speed losses on UK connections were under 8%. Gaming, torrenting, browsing, streaming -- these speed-dependent services won't be slowed down for Hotspot Shield users.
We're not excited about Hotspot's privacy and security, though. Since the services uses a closed-source proprietary Catapult Hydra protocol , instead of the more transparent open-source OpenVPN protocol, we'd like to see Hotspot give the public more third-party audits -- a necessary step to bring Hotspot up to speed with routinely audited VPNs like TunnelBear.
 As recently as April 2021, review site VPNMentor discovered a DNS leak in Hotspot Shield's plug-in for Google Chrome. Hotspot acknowledged the issue at the time and aimed to improve the product.
We're also not thrilled about the amount of user data Hotspot collects, and its privacy policy. With its premium product, it gathers and retains much more information about users than most other VPNs. And if you're using the free version of its product, it shares that information -- along with even more finite data, including your MAC address and specific phone identifier -- with advertising companies.
While its interface is user-friendly and its speeds are thrilling, spending time with Hotspot is going to leave your wallet a little lighter than you might prefer. Its current price is higher than its nearest competitors, its speeds slightly slower and its privacy more questionable. If you're looking for a VPN purely on the grounds of speed, we still recommend passing on Hotspot until it improves.
Read more : Hotspot Shield VPN Review: This Speedster Costs More Than Faster, More Private Competitors Quick Take Servers: 1,800-plus in 80-plus locations Country/Jurisdiction: US (Five Eyes member) Platforms: Windows, Android, MacOS, iOS, Linux, Amazon Fire TV Price: $8 per month or $95.88 billed annually. Month-to-month plan at $13 ":"is9difrvjbtbr1j","type":"heading"}"=""> TunnelBear TunnelBear has gotten a lot of hype in the last couple of years. But when we looked under its hood and compared it with its VPN competitors, our excitement waned.
TunnelBear's speeds are reasonable. We lost nearly 63% of internet speed overall when we used it, which is about average for a VPN. TunnelBear's speeds have steadily improved over the years as measured by other review and testing sites, though, and the US scores we recorded saw a speed loss of only 54%.
On the plus side, TunnelBear is holding its own in the transparency competition among VPNs by publishing the results of its independent security audits and annual transparency reports.
 No IP address, DNS or other potentially user-identifying data leaks were detected during our testing, but in the past TunnelBear was observed to have been leaking WebRTC information. TunnelBear's VPN encryption is standard AES-256 and it supports Perfect Forward Secrecy.
However, it's also a Canadian business owned by US-based McAfee, so if you're looking for subpoena-proof international online privacy, you're playing with fire. It holds a paltry 23 server locations from which you can't manually choose your VPN server or even a city. It doesn't offer Tor-over-VPN, it offers split tunneling only on Android and it can't even unblock Netflix.
On a per-month breakdown, the least expensive TunnelBear plan is its $120, three-year plan. You can also go month to month for $10, or pay $60 up front for a single year. Either way, TunnelBear accepts payment via credit card and bitcoin. Unlike other VPNs, it doesn't take PayPal. Also unlike other VPNs, it doesn't support Amazon Fire Stick or Android TV.
Read more : TunnelBear VPN Review: The Overpriced Ursine Has Trouble Living Up to the Hype Quick Take Average speed loss: 63% Number of countries: 48-plus Jurisdiction: Canada, with US parent company Price: $3.33 per month, or $120, for a 3-year plan ":"cjg33e084086l1o","type":"heading"}"=""> CyberGhost VPN In CNET's previous coverage of virtual private networks, we've praised CyberGhost for its roster of competitive features. Our in-depth review of CyberGhost in 2019 included speed testing, security verification and an analysis of its full suite of privacy tools. Since then, the VPN company has increased its number of servers and is prepared to roll out new privacy tools, all while remaining one of the cheapest VPNs we've reviewed -- at $2.03 per month for a two-year plan.
As we've bolstered our approach to VPN reviews, however, CyberGhost has raised some red flags. Its parent company's history warrants skepticism; our previous tests have shown it to expose your VPN use to your ISP; its website and app trackers are more numerous than warranted; and its ad blocker uses an untrustworthy method of traffic manipulation no VPN should even think about. Its low price previously made it worth considering if you needed to change the appearance of your location online, but not if you wanted best-in-class security.
While CyberGhost's connection speed and security features appear to be improving, we don't currently recommend using the VPN service provider if you're in a country where VPNs are illegal.
 We also recommend that anyone in the US review CyberGhost's parent company before deciding whether to pay for a subscription.
On the plus side, however, CyberGhost is still faster than Norton Secure VPN and was less taxing on the processing power of our devices. It also offers split tunneling in its Windows client and has its servers neatly organized into categories: NoSpy servers, servers geared for torrenting, servers best for streaming and servers best for use with a static IP address. CyberGhost imposes no data caps, allows unlimited server switching and offers a 45-day money back guarantee on subscription plans of a year or more.
Read more : CyberGhost VPN review: Competitive Features, but Its Parent Company Concerns Me Quick Take Number of servers: Over 8,000 worldwide in 91 countries Number of server locations: 111 Jurisdiction: Romania, with UK parent company Number of simultaneous connections: 7 $2.03 a month or $60 for a two year plan (plus four free months). Month-to-month plan at $13.
":"ja3iulwmvk9jl1k","type":"heading"}"=""> Norton Secure VPN NortonLifeLock, long known for excellence in security products, has a relatively limited offering in its VPN product.
Norton Secure VPN does not support P2P or BitTorrent, Linux, routers or set-top boxes. Its Netflix and streaming compatibility is somewhat limited. Even worse, during testing, we experienced privacy-compromising data leaks.
During CNET's testing, Norton Secure VPN speeds were comparable to other midtier VPNs but not particularly competitive. Although its VPN is only available on four platforms -- Mac, iOS, Windows and Android -- Norton gets points for its 24/7 live customer service phone support and 60-day money back guarantee.
Norton Secure VPN's pricing structure is a bit different than what you typically find in the industry. Pricing is tiered based on how many simultaneous connections you want with your account. For a single device, you'll pay $30 for the first year and $50 for any subsequent years, or $4.99 a month for the monthly. For five simultaneous connections, the price jumps to $40 for the first year and $80 for subsequent years, or $8 a month for the monthly plan. If you want up to 10 simultaneous connections, the price is $60 for the first year and $100 for subsequent years, or $10 a month for the monthly plan.
Read more : Norton Secure VPN Review: Why We Don't Recommend It Quick Take Number of countries: 30 Number of servers: 1,500 (1,200 virtual) Number of server locations: 200 in 73 cities Country/jurisdiction: US $40 for the first 12 months for five devices ":"5uoqggub0qbep58","type":"heading"}"=""> Mullvad Mullvad is an independent and open source VPN provider that is focused on building trust through transparency and its commitment to protecting the privacy and security of its users. Although there are other VPNs that are considerably more well-known in the industry, Mullvad's offering overall is just as polished and easy to use as many of the bigger players in the market.
Mullvad's primary focus is on security. Like most other top VPN providers , Mullvad employs industry-standard AES 256-bit encryption to secure users' connections. Mullvad's kill switch feature and DNS leak protection are enabled by default and cannot be disabled. During our testing , the kill switch worked as expected and we detected no leaks of any kind. The company says it doesn't keep any logs of its users' activity, and is, for the most part, pretty transparent about how it operates and what it does to protect user privacy. Mullvad is unique in that it doesn't require any personal information at signup. While most VPN providers ask users to provide an email address and enter a username, Mullvad generates a random 16-digit account number to activate each new user account. You don't even need to provide any payment information since Mullvad accepts cash sent via mail.
Mullvad's source code being entirely open source is a testament to the company's transparency, but we'd still like to see Mullvad issue an annual transparency report to give the public a view of how many legal requests the company gets and where they're coming from. Though Mullvad tells us a new security audit is forthcoming, the company's 2020 security audit (conducted by German cybersecurity firm Cure53) concluded at the time that the VPN "does a great job protecting the end user from common PII leaks and privacy-related risks." With servers in 68 locations across 38 countries, Mullvad's VPN server network is comparatively small. Even so, the network covers the most in-demand locations and is pretty well spread out across the globe. And what its network may lack in size, it makes up for in speed. In our latest round of speed testing, we measured just a 23% drop in average speeds (most VPNs will slow you down 50% or more), easily making it one of the fastest VPNs we've tested. Though Mullvad's speeds are fantastic, it's not the best for geographically restricted content. We were able to access Netflix without any issues, but were denied access to stream Disney-plus when connected to Mullvad's US servers.
However, Mullvad's straightforward approach to pricing is a breath of fresh air, especially with so many other VPN providers concocting ever-more convoluted pricing structures. Mullvad costs about $5 a month, whether you want to use it for a month, a year or a decade -- and you're never locked into a long-term subscription plan. If you're not satisfied with the service, you can get a refund within 30 days of purchase.
Read more: Mullvad Review: Solid Security and Privacy, but Swedish Jurisdiction Is Concerning Quick Take Number of servers: 840 Server location: 68 locations in 38 countries Number of simultaneous connections: 5 Jurisdiction: Sweden Price: $5 a month ":"j1jg13dvdtxrn1y","type":"heading"}"="" data-id="toc-dab293a4-bef1-4902-86b6-3a4565bc524d-item-4"> Other VPNs our experts are reviewing Below you'll find some additional VPNs. We're in the process of re-evaluating them in the coming months.
":"m20okpgswagskym","type":"heading"}"=""> PureVPN PureVPN says it doesn't log connection information. The company joined the "no log" movement in 2018, and underwent a third-party audit by Althius IT (albeit one commissioned and paid for by PureVPN).
We like that PureVPN offers a 31-day refund policy and supports bitcoin payments. We also like that PureVPN has both Kodi and Chromebook apps available. In addition, PureVPN was the first VPN service we noted to fully implement GDPR compliance.
Quick Take Number of servers: 6,500-plus Number of countries: 78-plus Country/jurisdiction: Hong Kong $3.24 a month for one-year plan, $1.99 a month for a two-year plan (plus three free months) ":"127l4zfh99nem5d","type":"heading"}"=""> StrongVPN StrongVPN blasts onto our list with excellent infrastructure and a decent price. StrongVPN has a strong no-logging policy, and picks up kudos for its large base of IP addresses. It has a solid collection of servers and worldwide locations. For those of you who need a dedicated IP, you can get one from the company but you'll need to contact customer support to get help setting it up.
One of StrongVPN's strengths is the company's network. It owns and operates its entire network infrastructure, which means it has no externally dictated limits on bandwidth or the type of internet traffic allowed on the network.
StrongVPN's regular monthly price of $10.99 is in the middle of the pack, but its regular yearly price of $80 is among the lowest of our contenders.
Our hands-on testing and review process is designed to cut through that hype. When we look at each VPN service, we're not just examining them for their technical weaknesses, but we're also scrutinizing their individual performance strengths. We want to know what each service does best. We test each VPN across over 20 factors, and we're continually improving our methodology as we learn more.
We test VPNs for browsing and streaming speed in multiple countries as well as their connection stability and even the smallest potential privacy leaks. By testing across multiple devices and platforms, we're able to assess which VPNs are best for gaming versus those best for streaming, torrenting or sharing sensitive information. Most importantly, we focus on doing the deep-dive research necessary to vet each VPN's historical credibility and its ownership in a notoriously murky market.
The VPNs on this list earn our recommendation for more than just boosting their digital privacy strengths -- they enable easy streaming to overcome geoblocked media, have torrenting-friendly servers, and are fast enough to support gaming globally. Based on those continued evaluations, you'll see a few bullet points on each entry in our list, highlighting each VPN's strengths and the uses we recommend it for most. And because we strive to keep on top of a fast-changing market, you'll notice that the rank of each VPN service changes as we learn more and retest.
This table shows the speeds we experienced in our testing. Your speeds will vary depending on factors like your internet service plan and connection type. The percentage of speed lost is intended as a general indicator of how much the VPN slows down your connection -- lower numbers represent a faster overall connection.
Picking a VPN requires knowing two basic things to start with: What you want to use it for, and what you're willing to pay. The range of VPN offerings is vast, but those two things will help you find a VPN that has the right blend of speed, security and cost.
Below, you'll find specific FAQ sections on picking a VPN based on the most common needs: gaming, streaming media, working from home and privacy-critical professions. But in general, you'll want a VPN that provides sufficient encryption, doesn't log your activity, offers essential security features like DNS leak protection and a kill switch, has server locations where you need them and can give you fast connection speeds. Our top five VPNs have all these features, although connection speeds will vary based on your internet provider and the server you connect to.
For a deeper dive, check our detailed walk-through of how we evaluate and review VPNs.
 If you're looking for some quick pointers, here are universally applicable advice guides for beginners: Don't use free VPN services : With the exception of Proton, you'll find only paid VPN options on this list above because they're the only ones we can recommend.
Look for a no-logs VPN, but understand the caveats : The best VPNs keep as few logs as possible and make them as anonymous as possible, so there's little data to provide should authorities come knocking. But even "no-logs" VPNs aren't 100% anonymous.
There are limits to the privacy VPNs currently provide to iOS users : Recent independent research has surfaced suggesting iPhones and iPads running iOS 14 or later may be vulnerable to device-only VPN leaks, regardless of which VPN is used. Apple users concerned with potential leaks can take extra precautions by installing their VPN on a home router to ensure their entire Wi-Fi network is encrypted. Some iOS users may potentially reduce the likelihood of leaks while outside of a home network by enabling their VPN's kill switch and selecting OpenVPN protocols. You can also try closing all apps, activating your VPN, and then enabling and disabling Airplane Mode before using your device normally. Apple advises users to activate their device's Always On VPN profile for additional protection.
VPN transparency is important, but warrant canaries are only the beginning : Many services use "warrant canaries" as a way to passively note to the public whether or not they've been subpoenaed by a government entity, as many investigations from national security agencies can't be actively disclosed by law. But -- like the no-logging issue -- warrant canaries aren't always as straightforward as they seem. You should spend more time investigating whether your prospective VPN has cooperated with authorities in the past, and how and when it's disclosed that fact.
Think twice about using a US-based VPN : The Patriot Act is still the law of the land in the US, and that means US-based VPNs have little recourse if and when the feds show up with subpoenas or national security letters in hand demanding access to servers, VPN user accounts or other data. Yes, they may have little data to access if the service has a strong no-logs policy, but why not just choose a service that's based outside Uncle Sam's jurisdiction? (If this is a concern for you, you'll want to avoid countries that the US has intelligence-sharing agreements with, too.) Quick Take Number of servers: 950-plus Number of server locations: 59 locations in 30 countries $3.66 a month (67% discount) for a one-year plan StrongVPN in-depth review and hands-on testing (ZDNet) VPN FAQs In today's hyper-connected world, online privacy and security are increasingly critical. From online banking to communicating remotely with colleagues, we're transferring more data on our computers and smartphones than ever before. Much of that data is confidential information that we need to keep safe from hackers and snoops, so VPN use is on the rise as people take steps to secure their digital lives.
Do I need a VPN? Anyone who accesses the internet from a computer, tablet or smartphone can benefit from using a VPN. You don't have to be an activist, government dissident or journalist to need a VPN; the rise of third-party data brokers, cross-site advertising trackers, IP address collection and mobile geo-targeting have all combined to create an online browsing environment that poses significant threats to everyday users' basic privacy. Because a VPN encrypts your connection, your browsing data is protected from your internet service provider (and any government entities who request your ISP data), and your network administrator in most cases. A VPN can also shield your private information -- like passwords, usernames and bank or shopping details -- from anyone snooping on your network.
What is the best free VPN? Proton VPN's free tier is the only free VPN we've come across so far that's worth using. It costs a lot of money to operate a VPN, and free VPN services usually make up for the lack of subscription revenue by selling user data. And in addition to being limited in usability and light on security, many free VPNs are fronts for malware distribution, which is why it's generally best to avoid them. However, Proton VPN's unlimited free tier is fast, secure and can be used for most online activities, including streaming Netflix. But if you're on a budget and want access to a premium VPN solution, you can also take a look at our picks for the best cheap VPNs.
What is a mobile VPN? A mobile VPN is simply a VPN you can use on your mobile device like your iPhone or Android phone. All of the providers we recommend have mobile versions of their desktop clients. You can use a mobile-focused VPN app to ensure greater data privacy designed for your whole device. Mobile VPNs also generally have a smaller memory footprint, and require less processing power than desktop VPNs, so they tend to yield faster connection speeds and don't eat up your battery as quickly. Keep in mind, however, that most mobile VPN clients will use a lighter form of encryption than a desktop client to achieve those smartphone speeds. So be sure to check your VPN apps' settings to ensure you're using the apps' strongest encryption if your privacy needs are heightened. Our top three VPN picks all have excellent, easy-to-use mobile VPN app options for their services. Some VPNs will only work with one type of mobile platform -- like iOS or Android -- and some are universally compatible. To find the right mobile VPN for you, check out our mobile-specific VPN guides below. We routinely update them with our retesting information, so check back often.
How to Set Up a VPN on Your Smartphone Best Android VPNs for 2023 Best iPhone VPNs of 2023 Are VPNs legal? VPNs are perfectly legal to use in most countries. There's nothing wrong with taking steps to protect your privacy online, and you shouldn't have to worry that using a VPN as part of that process will get you in any kind of legal trouble.
However, there are countries where VPNs are either banned or outright illegal. If you're using a VPN in a country like China, Iran, Oman, Russia, Turkmenistan, UAE or Belarus, you may find yourself in legal trouble. The irony here is that these are the countries where internet censorship and surveillance are most common. In those countries, you'll need to make sure you use a VPN that provides strong obfuscation so your VPN traffic is disguised as ordinary HTTPS traffic, meaning government entities won't even know you're using a VPN in the first place.
But you won't run into any trouble with the law for using a VPN across most of the world. One important reminder, though: VPNs are legal in most places, but engaging in illegal activity online is still illegal regardless of whether you're using a VPN.
How do I use a VPN for Netflix? If you live in a country that censors its media or are traveling to one, georestricted content is a pain. You can use a VPN to circumvent censorship or access your home country's normal media content for an online streaming service like Netflix, Hulu, Amazon Prime Video or Disney Plus. Pick a VPN that lets you manually select which country you want to connect through and has something called obfuscation.
 (Our top three picks offer this.) You don't always need to use the obfuscation feature to unblock Netflix, but since streaming services actively try to block VPN connections, obfuscation can help because it disguises your VPN traffic as regular internet traffic.
If you're looking to try out other VPNs, choose one with a large number of IP addresses, preferably 10,000 or more. This is because one of the ways Netflix and others block VPNs is by blacklisting known VPN IPs -- and if your VPN has tens of thousands of IPs, there's a better chance that you'll be able to connect to an IP address that Netflix hasn't flagged.
Once you have your VPN installed, connect to the country whose content you wish to view, restart your browser and go to the streaming site. If your VPN is working, the site should treat you as a resident of your selected country and serve you content assigned to that audience. If you're still having trouble, you can try using incognito mode on your browser or try clearing your cookies and cache.
How do I know if my VPN is working? Your first and most apparent indication that your VPN is working is that your IP address will change and your location will be registered as that of the VPN server you're connecting through. You can check this on a site like whatismyipaddress.com.
You'll also want to make sure your VPN is protecting your privacy and not leaking any of your data outside of the VPN tunnel, thus exposing it to your ISP and other entities that may be monitoring your online activity. You can check for leaks by going to a site like dnsleaktest.com or ipleak.net. If your location is being registered as the VPN server location, and your leak tests turn up negative, then you know your VPN is working to protect your privacy.
What is a remote-access VPN? A remote-access VPN uses public infrastructure like the internet to provide remote users secure access to their network. This is particularly important for organizations and their corporate networks. It's crucial when employees connect to a public hotspot and use the internet for sending work-related emails. A VPN client on the user's computer or mobile device connects to a VPN gateway on the company's network. This gateway will typically require the device to authenticate its identity. It will then create a network link back to the device that allows it to reach internal network resources such as file servers, printers and intranets, as if it were on the same local network.
What is a site-to-site VPN? This is when the VPN technology uses a gateway device to connect the entire network in one location to a network in another location. The majority of site-to-site VPNs that connect over the internet use IPsec. IPsec-based encryption protocols are often considered by VPN specialists to be less secure against modern surveillance. Rather than using the public internet, it is also normal to use multiprotocol label switching clouds as the main transport for site-to-site VPNs.
VPNs are often defined between specific computers, and in most cases, they are servers in separate data centers. However, new hybrid-access situations have now transformed the VPN gateway in the cloud, typically with a secure link from the cloud service provider into the internal network.
What's the best VPN? The best VPN for you depends on your needs when using a VPN.
VPNs for crucial privacy and security If you're a journalist, a lawyer or a professional in any other privacy-sensitive field, forget about speed and price when choosing a VPN. Focus, instead, entirely on security. Your VPN may be somewhat slower but, for both VPNs and presidential motorcades, speed is always the trade-off for privacy. Avoid free VPNs and browser-based VPNs.
 If you're concerned with government monitoring in your current country, choose a VPN headquartered outside of the country you're currently in, and avoid choosing a VPN with a jurisdiction in an allied country. For example, US journalists should avoid VPNs with a jurisdiction in the US or other Five Eyes countries.
 Keep an eye on encryption: Your VPN should offer a protocol called OpenVPN TCP (for its mobile apps, IKEv2 is fine). Right now, the VPN we recommend most for critical privacy is ExpressVPN.
VPNs for working from home If you're working from home, you may be sharing your internet connection with multiple devices and family members or roommates. That's a lot of simultaneous connections to a VPN and a lot of drag on a network. Pick a VPN that lets you use one subscription on as many devices as possible and has excellent speeds so your Wi-Fi isn't bogged down. If your job involves handling sensitive information like financial or medical records, however, your priority VPN criteria is security. Our top three VPN picks are the most secure we've found, and each has a different number of connections they'll allow for a base-level subscription. Depending on your budget and home office requirements, ExpressVPN, Surfshark and NordVPN are all great options for working from home. There are a few other factors worth considering for a home office VPN, though, so check out our guide to picking the right VPN for working at home.
VPNs for gaming Most VPNs are chosen based on having a good balance of speed, security and cost. But if you want a VPN specifically to connect to game servers in another country, speed is everything. Free VPNs won't be fast enough, but, fortunately, high-end security won't be a cost driver, which gives you more options at modest prices.
 Since all VPNs reduce speed -- many by half or more -- that means picking one from the set that performed best in our speed tests.
 In our latest tests, NordVPN took the lead as the fastest VPN, though you can get excellent speeds through Surfshark via the WireGuard protocol as well as with ExpressVPN. If you're focused on VPNs for game consoles, have a look at our best VPNs for Xbox and our primer on installing them.
 Before choosing the one right for your needs, visit the VPN's official website to see whether they offer servers specifically aimed at gaming in the countries where you most want to connect to other players.
CNET VPN Coverage VPN Use Cases Best VPN Best iPhone VPN Best Free VPN Best Android VPN Best Mac VPN Best Mobile VPN Best VPN for Windows Fastest VPN Best Cheap VPN Best VPN Deals VPN Reviews - Our Top Picks ExpressVPN Surfshark VPN NordVPN Proton VPN IPVanish VPN Reviews - Other Services Hotspot Shield TunnelBear CyberGhost Norton Secure Mullvad VPN Streaming with VPN Best VPN for Smart TV Best VPN for Firestick Setup VPN on Smart TV VPN Travel Hack Streaming TV Insider VPN Education How We Test VPNs VPN FAQs Important VPN Terms VPN and Internet Speed Why Not to Use a Free VPN Critical vs Casual VPN VPN Kill Switch VPN Trackers 3 Crucial VPN Features Setup VPN on iPhone More From CNET Deals Reviews Best Products Gift Guide Shopping Extension Videos Software Downloads About About CNET Newsletters Sitemap Careers Policies Cookie Settings Help Center Licensing Privacy Policy Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information instagram youtube tiktok facebook twitter flipboard
