Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 81% of IT teams plan to invest in RPA next year Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
A recent survey conducted by Robocorp gathered the perspectives of RPA users, specifically IT teams, to better understand current RPA (robotic process automation) solutions, existing roadblocks RPA users face, the ways in which individuals currently use their RPA technology, how much they’ve invested and where there is room for growth.
First and foremost, Robocorp found that there is incredible growth within the RPA industry: 67% of respondents invested in RPA technology within the past year and, even further, 81% of respondents plan to invest in RPA in the next year. While this increased growth in the use of RPA technology is exciting, the survey also uncovered an apparent dissatisfaction with existing technology. Not only do 69% of respondents experience broken bots with their current RPA at least once per week, but 65% of respondents agree that they would benefit from usage-based pricing.
To add on to the dissatisfaction current RPA users are experiencing, the survey also revealed that most individuals aren’t even using the RPA technology that would best suit their needs: 34% of respondents say the primary value of RPA is the ability to adapt current tech to meet evolving needs and 22% say it’s ability to scale and meet evolving processing needs. This makes for 56% of respondents who would benefit from open source technology but, unfortunately, 81% of respondents say 50% or less of their RPA tech is open source.
The results of the survey clearly highlight RPA’s increasing popularity across industries, particularly to drive company growth and success. However, the results from the survey also show that the solutions individuals are using are clearly not working. It’s time to progress to stronger, more reliable and fairly priced technology that meets consumer standards – Gen2 RPA technology.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Read the full report by Robocorp.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
