Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: Only 8 ransomware groups have attacked over 500 organizations Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Kaspersky ’s threat intelligence team has conducted analysis into the most common tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) used by 8 of the most prolific ransomware groups during their attacks. The research revealed that different groups share more than half of the cyber kill chain and execute the core stages of an attack identically.
The researchers looked at the activity of Conti/Ryuk, Pysa, Clop (TA505), Hive, Lockbit2.0, RagnarLocker, BlackByte and BlackCat. These groups have been active in the United States, Great Britain and Germany, and have targeted over 500 organizations within industries such as manufacturing, software development and small business, between March 2021 and March 2022.
The observed attacks were often predictable, following a pattern that includes compromising the corporate network or victim’s computer, delivering malware , further discovery, credential access , deleting shadow copies, removing backups and finally achieving their objectives.
The emergence of a phenomenon called ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS) has helped lead to the similarities in behavior. Under this model, ransomware groups do not deliver malware by themselves, but only provide the data encryption services. Since the people who deliver malicious files also want to simplify their lives, they use template delivery methods or automation tools to gain access.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The researchers also noted that different groups have been reusing old and similar tools to make life easier for attackers and reduce the time it takes to prepare an attack. Although it is possible to detect recycled techniques, it’s hard to do so preventively across all possible threat vectors. Organizations can make themselves targets with slow installation of updates and patches.
Read the full report by Kaspersky.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
