Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release pulsESGTM Announces Pilot Program with Clayton, Dubilier & Rice to Advance ESG Reporting and Measurement Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn NEW YORK–(BUSINESS WIRE)–August 30, 2022– pulsESG TM , a pioneering software as a service (SaaS) platform offering enterprises a centralized system of record and reference for environmental, social, and governance (ESG) metrics, has announced that Clayton, Dubilier & Rice (CD&R) has engaged pulsESG TM in a collaborative pilot program seeking to enable portfolio companies to make measurable progress toward ESG goals in a way that can be validated and benchmarked by management and stakeholders.
Through the pilot program, pulsESG TM will work to design, test, configure, and improve initiatives to manage vast amounts of ESG data, which is often unstructured and challenging to process, supporting portfolio company efforts to enable greater transparency, assurance, and value creation across stakeholders.
“The pulsESG TM team is excited to provide an integrated, comprehensive, and flexible SaaS platform that will support the efforts of CD&R and its funds’ portfolio companies to define, capture, analyze, derive insight, and improve their ESG footprint,” said Murat Sönmez, pulsESG TM Co-founder and CEO. “We are pleased to be working on this pilot program with CD&R, which is well-recognized for its commitment to operational excellence.” Led by tech veterans and co-founders Murat Sönmez and Inderjeet Singh, the pulsESG TM platform provides auditable analytics that can be integrated with both the source and destination ESG systems of customers. This level of information empowers enterprises to make more informed ESG decisions using a platform that also provides end-users the flexibility to modify it based on changes in the ESG regulatory landscape and according to their stakeholder needs.
About pulsESG TM Founded in 2021, pulsESG, Inc.
is a public benefit corporation dedicated to empowering purpose-driven enterprises to manage and improve their ESG footprint with an integrated and comprehensive SaaS platform built for compliance tracking and insight.
For more information, see: www.pulsESG.com LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/pulsESG View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20220830005333/en/ Murat Sönmez CEO, pulsESG, Inc.
murat@pulsesg.com +1 650-575-5255 VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
