Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 55% of apps available on Google Play share user data Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
While studying the Google Play data safety section, researchers at Incogni found that 55.2% of apps declare sharing user data. Among those, free apps share, on average, seven times as many data points as their paid counterparts.
Popular apps yielded similar results, sharing 6.15 times more data than less popular ones. The vast disparity between the data-sharing policies of paid and unpaid apps seems to confirm the common belief that consumers actually pay for free online services with their data.
Incogni’s researchers took a deep dive into the new Google Play data safety section, launched in July 2022, to shed more light on the data sharing and security practices of app developers. They found that shopping, business, and food and drink apps share the most data, on average, while social media and business apps collect the most data.
Social media Some of the apps, such as Facebook , Messenger and Instagram, which collect the most personal information, declare sharing the least. However, Google’s definition of sharing does not include the transfer of data to a service provider, for legal reasons, or of anonymized data (which can be re-identified 99.98% of the time with enough data points). This means a lot more data might end up in transit than users are made aware of.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The study also looked at how developers handle the transit of user data. They found that 4.9% of apps do not encrypt personal data in transit, through their own admission. More interestingly, less than half of the apps make any claims about encrypting data in transit, which could mean that the real percentage of apps that provide no encryption is much higher.
Summed up, the results of Incogni’s report show strong evidence that far more data is “shared” than Google Play users may understand from the data safety section.
Methodology Incogni’s study was based on an analysis of the data safety sections of the top 500 free and 500 paid apps in the Google Play Store.
Read the full report by Incogni.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
