Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 59% of software companies expect to increase SaaS delivery in the next 18 months Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Software companies are undergoing a seismic shift in how they monetize and deploy products.
Nearly two-thirds (59%) expect to deploy more software-as-a-service (SaaS) models; and 54% expect to increase subscription pricing models. Concurrently, perpetual licensing and on-premises deployments are growing much more slowly. Still, the increase in all deployment models reflects the hybrid nature of contemporary approaches.
The adoption of SaaS and subscription models are driven by a few factors. Looking forward, this includes entering a new vertical market (65%), eliminating revenue leakage (63%), easing customer adoption (61%) and offering usage-based models (61%).
As popular as usage-based models could become, relatively few software suppliers (26%) can gather product usage data “very well” and only 32% indicate that the price of their software is “totally aligned” with the value delivered to customers. This indicates areas that need to be strengthened in order to support overall monetization practices and goals.
Today’s reality is that software customers have varied requirements that are best met through a variety of both monetization and deployment models. Managing these offerings requires insights into users’ behaviors. The ability to deliver and support hybrid offerings can help software suppliers succeed. One thing remains constant: the need to deliver high-value products that help ensure customer retention.
The 2022 Revenera Monetization Monitor: Software Industry Survey was conducted by Revenera from mid-April through mid-July 2022. This research project looks at software producers’ software business models, pricing, usage and transparency. The survey was undertaken globally. Job levels of the 261 survey respondents were: director and above (31%), manager/team leader (35%), and individual contributors/consultants (34%).
Read the full report by Revenera.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
