Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Samsung brings generative AI art and personalization to refrigerators Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn You can have generative art on your Samsung Bespoke refrigerators.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Samsung is announcing that its Bespoke line of custom appliance decorations will enable a form of generative AI art on its refrigerators and more.
With MyBespoke, the company will tap a combination of a human artist with generative AI art to make a collection of art available for its appliances.
The company’s latest line of refrigerators will have a Bespoke refrigerator that can be personalized with your original designs, artwork or favorite photos. MyBespoke custom panels help inspire you to create a one-of-a-kind fridge so you can personalize your kitchen.
Samsung said MyBespoke embraces home design trends that express personality and style using new materials, colors and artful designs. You can design your one-of-a-kind MyBespoke fridge panels with one or both French Doors and Samsung will deliver them to your home.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! You can create your own design when you purchase a Bespoke refrigerator from Samsung.com, and simply change out your existing Bespoke French Door fridge panels with your custom-designed panels. To complement your custom MyBespoke design on the top doors, you can choose from a variety of bold, bright or neutral Bespoke colors in glass or metallic finishes – for the lower doors or drawers of the fridge.
You can upload, edit and print your design on customizable, interchangeable Bespoke fridge door panels on Samsung.com. MyBespoke custom printed panels are available for $300 per panel, with delivery to your home in approximately eight weeks.
Unlocking personalization with generative art Samsung partnered with generative artist, Matt Jacobson, to create 100 unique generative art prints designed for Bespoke refrigerators.
The MyBespoke Generative Art Collection uses four popular Bespoke colors as a foundation, including White Glass, Navy Steel, Morning Blue and Emerald Green. The digital art collection complements those colors with inspiration from nature, visually channeling how water might flow through a stream or how wind might blow through air.
Generative art is an evolving digital medium that uses the randomness of computer algorithms to create stunning, one-of-a-kind images. It’s a blend of creativity and technology. Combined with the detail of MyBespoke printing, this innovative medium unlocks new ways to experience digital art.
Matt Jacobson – a.k.a. numbersinmotion – uses computer code as his paintbrush. He created the MyBespoke Generative Art Collection to share the unexpected artistry of algorithms with a whole new audience.
The collection is available for a limited time and free to download from January 31 to February 13. The digital prints are sized for Bespoke refrigerator panels, so you can easily upload, edit and print the designs with MyBespoke on Samsung.com.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
