Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages US senator open letter calls for AI security at ‘forefront’ of development Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Today, Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA), chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, sent a series of open letters to the CEOs of AI companies, including OpenAI , Google, Meta, Microsoft and Anthropic , calling on them to put security at the “forefront” of AI development.
“I write today regarding the need to prioritize security in the design and development of artificial intelligence (AI) systems. As companies like yours make rapid advancements in AI, we must acknowledge the security risks inherent in this technology and ensure AI development and adoption proceeds in a responsible and secure way,” Warner wrote in each letter.
More broadly, the open letters articulate legislators’ growing concerns over the security risks introduced by generative AI.
Security in focus This comes just weeks after NSA cybersecurity director Rob Joyce warned that ChatGPT will make hackers that use AI “much more effective,” and just over a month after the U.S. Chamber of Commerce called for regulation of AI technology to mitigate the “national security implications” of these solutions.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The top AI-specific issues Warner cited in the letter were integrity of the data supply chain (ensuring the origin, quality and accuracy of input data), tampering with training data (aka data-poisoning attacks), and adversarial examples (where users enter inputs to models that intentionally cause them to make mistakes).
Warner also called for AI companies to increase transparency over the security controls implemented within their environments, requesting an overview of how each organization approaches security, how systems are monitored and audited, and what security standards they’re adhering to, such as NIST’s AI risk management framework.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
