Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AI21 Labs raises $155M to accelerate generative AI for enterprises Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: Roei Shor Photography/A21 Labs Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Tel Aviv, Israel-based large language model (LLM) leader AI21 Labs confirmed with VentureBeat that it has has closed $155 million in series C funding to accelerate the growth of its text-based generative AI services for enterprises. The company is now valued at $1.4 billion.
Investors in the round include Walden Catalyst, Pitango, SCB10X, b2venture, Samsung Next and Amnon Shashua with participation from Google and Nvidia.
AI21 is often cited as a rival to OpenAI Founded in 2017 by AI pioneers and technology veterans Amnon Shasuha, Yoav Shoham and Ori Goshen, AI21 Labs may have been one of the first to bring gen AI to the masses, but it has also spent the past year chasing LLM rivals like OpenAI to commercial applications.
After a $64 million series B round last year, Shoham, an emeritus professor of AI at Stanford University, told VentureBeat that he recognized that the funding landscape was tightening and more LLMs and multimodal models were being launched every day.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! He said the company was “very aware of the environment and not complacent in any way.” AI21’s proprietary Jurassic-2 foundation models are considered some of the world’s largest and most sophisticated LLMs. Jurassic-2 powers AI21 Studio, a developer platform for building custom text-based business applications off of AI21’s language models; and Wordtune, a multilingual reading and writing AI assistant for professionals and consumers.
AI21 develops and owns foundation models that serve as platform AI21 chairman Shashua said in a press release: “AI21 Labs is a pure play in AI as it develops and owns foundation models which are served as a platform to developers and enterprises, while developing derivatives such as Wordtune directly to end users. The current round fuels the growth of the company to reach its goal of developing the next level of AI with the capabilities of reasoning across many domains. We believe that the impact of AI21 Labs growth plans would be of a global scale and quite soon.” Jensen Huang, founder and CEO of Nvidia, also shouted out AI21’s work in the press release: “Generative AI is driving a new era of computing across every industry,” he said. “The innovative work by the AI21 Labs team will help enterprises accelerate productivity and efficiency with generative AI-based systems that are accurate, trustworthy and reliable.” AI21 has recently collaborated with customers in diverse sectors, including Carrefour, Clarivate, eBay, Guesty, Monday.com and Ubisoft. The company was also named on the first ever CB Insights GenAI 50.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
