Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Gong’s new Call Spotlight uses AI to summarize customer calls for revenue teams Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: VentureBeat made with Midjourney Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Gong , the eight-year-old company focused on making technology that streamlines workflows for revenue teams across sectors, made news earlier this summer by introducing new generative AI-powered features to its customer conversation analysis platform, including gen AI messaging suggestions.
Now, it’s going a step further: The company today announced exclusively with VentureBeat that it is introducing the new feature Call Spotlight, accessible for all of its 4,000 platform customers (and counting) globally, at no extra charge.
The new AI-driven tool (powered by a mix of proprietary Gong AI models and GPT-4 in Microsoft Azure OpenAI Service ) automatically transcribes and analyzes a revenue team member’s conversation with a customer over video call, audio call, mobile or desktop, even emails and text correspondence — any communications the revenue team member wants — and auto-generates a summary and key points for the revenue team to act on.
Increased AI productivity with a human touch For Gong’s largely business-to-business (B2B)-focused clients, who spend lots of time prospecting customers of their own and managing customer relationships through direct correspondence, the tool is poised to offer increased productivity and efficiency.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! At the same time, Gong hopes the new feature allows revenue teams and salespeople even more time to forge and maintain the unique customer relationships that are key to landing business.
“You become more efficient” using Call Spotlight, Gong chief product officer and cofounder Eilon Reshef, said in a video call with VentureBeat. “You don’t need to review the whole text. You don’t need to listen to the whole call. You don’t need to take notes. You don’t need to do anything manually.” Just enable Call Spotlight through Gong’s platform — there are modes that will prompt the other parties in any given call to agree to being recorded and analyzed by Gong’s AI — and it will take care of it for you.
Unparalleled accuracy Gong says that Call Spotlight is unmatched in its accuracy, offering sales insights that are twice as reliable as generic solutions available on the market such as other consumer large language models (LLMs) , having been trained on billions of sales interactions that Gong sourced from customers.
“What’s unique about Gong is that because we train the system based on revenue conversations, we get much more accurate results,” Reshef told VentureBeat.
This includes a more accurate AI interpreter of specific company and product names — something other auto-transcription AI services often struggle to handle, in VentureBeat’s testing, defaulting to generic words instead of trademarks.
Ask the AI anything One of Call Spotlight’s standout features is its unique “Ask Anything” function — the first of its kind tailored specifically for sales. Think of it as your personal sales coach, ready to answer any question you throw at it.
Whether it’s seeking guidance on sealing a deal or understanding why a particular conversation matters to a regional account executive, Ask Anything delivers precise, context-rich advice.
For instance, after a call, a sales rep might wonder, “What can I do to up my game for closing this deal?” Ask Anything churns out actionable steps based on its deep learning of a specific customer interaction, with context pulled from Gong’s extensive sales data.
Similarly, if a manager wants to know whether competitors were name-dropped during a conversation, the tool can sift through the call details and flag any potential threats, allowing for targeted coaching strategies.
Call Spotlight’s key features In addition to the Ask Anything feature, Call Spotlight includes: Highlights: This feature boils down the crux of a conversation into easy-to-digest bullet points and suggests next steps. It’s like a cheat sheet for sales calls, built on Gong’s in-house AI models.
Outline: Imagine having call topics neatly filed and categorized, almost like chapters in a book. It automatically organizes topics discussed in a call to make it easier for the revenue team member or the entire team to grasp the customer’s needs and concerns.
Call Briefs: These are condensed summaries of conversations that Gong says allow reps and managers to catch up on previous talks up to 80% faster.
Automated CRM Updates: In an age when time is money, automated CRM entries save reps from the drudgery of manual data entry, allowing them to focus on what they do best — selling.
Gong customers can also share any of these AI-generated products with their colleagues and managers as needed, and also push data to their customer relationship management (CRM) software of choice for recordkeeping — or not. It’s all up to the customer to decide what to do with their gen AI work products.
Security remains paramount Furthermore, Gong knows that security is top-of-mind for many of its customers, and seeks to reassure them that safeguarding their data is of paramount importance while introducing all of these new gen AI features.
“One of the critical elements for us is security,” said Reshef. “We have some of the Fortune top 50 companies as customers, and they are very concerned about security and unlikely to allow us to sell their data outside the company. So we hire Gong employees and do everything in-house.” Gong noted that it has been recording calls since 2016, and is GDPR-compliant and has stayed up-to-date on all relevant regulations in the years since.
By marrying highly accurate, context-specific advice with a range of other features and security, Gong hopes that Call Spotlight will be a game-changer for the revenue teams that try it out.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
