Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sprig uses AI to transform product surveys into conversational data Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: VentureBeat made with Midjourney Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Sprig , a five-year-old startup focused on creating smart, contextually aware in-app surveys for enterprises, earned a big vote of confidence last year, securing $30 million in funding from prominent venture capital firms including a16z and Accel.
Today, the company is announcing where some of those funds went: A new feature Sprig calls AI Analysis for Surveys, which, as the name suggests, uses generative AI large language models (LLMs) to intelligently comb through survey data and provide instantaneous insights to the company that conducted the survey.
Surveys that can answer you back To put it more bluntly: Sprig’s AI Analysis for Surveys transforms survey data into a conversational AI product.
With it, you as the survey owner can ask your survey results any conceivable question, and the AI will sort through them and attempt to respond with the most appropriate data, insights, takeaways or suggestions — and this includes qualitative survey data like open-ended text entries, not just multiple choice or quantitative answers.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “You can ask Sprig AI to answer any custom questions about your survey data, and it will analyze responses across all of your survey questions to find the answer,” Sprig CEO Ryan Glasgow, wrote in a blog post about the news.
The company also announced an expanded free plan, and new large enterprise customers including PayPal, Figma, Ramp, Peloton and Mixpanel.
“World-class product teams continue to choose our platform because they value their user experience and have found Sprig to be a mission-critical platform to differentiate their products in today’s competitive environment,” wrote Glasgow.
Building upon initial success Sprig first made waves in 2020 with the launch of its in-product survey platform and Open-Text AI Analysis feature, which automatically groups open-ended survey responses (those questions that ask you to write about your experience in a text box) into themes.
The feature was adopted quickly by leading enterprises including Dropbox, Loom, Coinbase, Robinhood and Square. To date, Sprig has analyzed feedback from more than 6 billion product visitors across hundreds of high-growth technology companies.
With the new AI Analysis for Surveys, Sprig takes it to the next level by analyzing entire survey datasets. Product teams can now: Review AI-generated survey summaries for top takeaways without manual analysis Ask custom questions about their data and receive AI-powered responses Explore new analysis questions suggested by Sprig’s AI based on the survey results to go deeper into their survey data and find less obvious trends. These findings can be used to improve and differentiate a product faster and in ways that would not have necessarily been even noticed by human review alone.
Addressing pain points to growth Glasgow wrote in an email to VentureBeat: “AI Analysis for Surveys solves a common pain point for product teams looking to deeply understand and optimize a specific part of their product experience, from understanding why users are churning out of a product to figuring out how to boost the conversion funnel.” In addition to rolling out AI Analysis for Surveys, Sprig is expanding its free plan to make its AI-powered product insights accessible to more teams.
The free plan now includes in-product surveys, session replays and Open-Text AI Analysis. Teams of all sizes can immediately start using Sprig and the new AI Analysis for Surveys feature set.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
