Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Event Do you have what it takes to win the Artificial Intelligence Innovation Showcase? Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) has been the Hot Topic for a while now. Everyone’s writing about it breathlessly: it’s the future of business, kicking nerdy data analytics in the face as it takes a quantum leap into the future and your company will wither into dust without it. All the serious research firms say oh yes, definitely. Get AI and your company will be golden. Miss the “AI trend” and you might be looking for a new job soon.
We say — enough vague talk about the possibilities of AI. Let’s see the results. Let’s get the companies where AI is really driving business impact up on stage.
This is why we are launching an Innovation Showcase Competition at this year’s VB Summit: Accelerating your business with AI, October 22 and 23 in Mill Valley, California.
It’s a contest for the AI winners. We’re not looking for early startups with seed money and a dream, but for the Series A-plus companies who have shown traction and have customer success examples they can showcase. We’re looking for companies that have put their money where their mouths are and can show us how they’ve used AI for real-world, measurable, tangible impact on their business or within their vertical.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Show us real business impact. Show us specific, innovative use cases. Show us why you’ve deployed an AI strategy, and exactly how it has transformed your business.
You’ll have three minutes on stage in front of 200 executives who are in the market to buy AI solutions and platform. Our panel of entrepreneurs and investors will provide real-time feedback after you present and you might just win one of our VentureBeat awards! Let’s stop talking about the promise of AI and get right down to the execution.
To apply, just fill out the form here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
