Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Event AI in the enterprise: Are you a trailblazer or laggard? Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
You’ve heard it from McKinsey, MIT, our own coverage , and elsewhere: Artificial Intelligence is a must-have capability for your business. These reports don’t provide much data yet on the areas or functions within your company that will benefit first from AI, or should.
That’s why VB has developed this quick survey to help execs better understand how to get started and where to focus their budget and energy to get business value out of AI. If you take the survey, we’d like to reward you by providing you access to the full results — which won’t otherwise be shared publicly.
This comes in the run-up to our AI-themed VB Summit on October 22 & 23 in Mill Valley, CA, a unique executive event aimed at which companies are getting real results from AI, and how they did it. We’ll be dissecting the “do’s and don’ts” around things like architecture and personnel decisions. Limited to 180 execs — VP level and above — the event brings together AI leaders from companies like Facebook, AirBnb, Uber, AirBus, Ancestry, Macy’s, JP Morgan Chase, Prudential, Experian, Google, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, Amazon, and many more.
If you’re an executive, we have a few spots left.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Even if you can’t make it, we suggest that you take our survey to assess where you are with artificial intelligence.
MIT Sloan found that optimism for AI was very high: 90 percent of the 3,000 executives they interviewed thought that AI would create new value within five years. And close to 30 percent said AI has already led to business model change at their organization.
Some 85 percent said they have urgent need for an AI strategy.
So, if you don’t where to start or how to formulate your strategy, you’re in very good company. Want to find out your company status? Find out how you compare with your peers? Answer the AI Survey now and you’ll get access to the full results when it’s complete ! VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
