Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages OpenAI CEO says custom GPTs delayed due to heavier-than-expected usage Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: OpenAI/YouTube Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Update: Weds. Nov. 8, 11:21 pm ET: In a post on X , OpenAI developer advocate Logan Kilpatrick said the company was experiencing “an abnormal traffic pattern reflective of a DDoS attack. We are continuing work to mitigate this.” It’s been just two days since OpenAI unveiled its newest services to the world at DevDay, its first-ever developer conference in San Francisco, among them — a GPT Builder that enables third-parties to easily create their own customized, simple chatbot models for completing specific tasks atop OpenAI’s ChatGPT, as well as AI Assistants that can plug into outside apps use intelligence in them from OpenAI’s GPT-4 model, and new, reduced pricing for many of its tools. Oh, and a new, faster, GPT-4 Turbo model.
While the enterprise software community at large is still digesting the flurry of announcements , it turns out that the demand for these features has already exceeded what OpenAI anticipated: OpenAI CEO Sam Altman said today in a post on the social network X that the staggered rollout of GPTs in particular, originally scheduled to be available for all GPT Plus and Enterprise subscribers on Monday, November 13, has been delayed due to higher-than-anticipated usage of the company’s new tools.
usage of our new features from devday is far outpacing our expectations.
we were planning to go live with GPTs for all subscribers monday but still haven’t been able to. we are hoping to soon.
there will likely be service instability in the short term due to load. sorry :/ In addition, Altman warned of “service instability” due to the demand load of many new users pinging the company’s servers for access to its models and new tools.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! That tracks with what some users reported on X today, noting that service to ChatGPT in particular was interrupted.
When ChatGPT is down and you suddenly need to think for yourself again pic.twitter.com/T0BC76d28c While Altman did not provide any updated details on the timeline for when the GPT Builder and custom GPTs would be made broadly available, attendees at DevDay and other selected users were granted early access.
Some of them have already started building interesting new custom GPTs to perform such tasks as making original GIFs and product prototype imagery using OpenAI’s DALL-E 3 image generator model baked into ChatGPT.
Even though the increased usage of these new features is resulting in a delay of OpenAI’s release plans, it ultimately seems like a good problem to have for the company, showing that people are clamoring for what it has to offer.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
