Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Calling all Generative AI disruptors of the enterprise! Apply now to present at VB Transform 2023 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Aperture Data Founder Vishakha Gupta-Cledat speaks at Transform. Image Credit: Michael O'Donnell Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The Innovation Showcase is back at VB Transform: Get ahead of the Generative AI revolution , July 11-12 in San Francisco.
We’re on the hunt for the 10 generative AI products most likely to disrupt the enterprise right now, and if you have such a product we’d like to invite you to present the impact of this technology on the main stage.
Those selected to present will do so in front of nearly a thousand industry decision-makers, and receive direct feedback from a panel of enterprise tech analysts, brand executives, and others. Every presenter will receive exclusive editorial coverage from VentureBeat, getting your company out in front of our millions of monthly readers.
Who should apply? Dynamic companies with compelling new generative AI technology, and that want to present their technology or solution on stage. We will also award winners in three categories: most likely to succeed, best technology and best presentation style.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! In total, up to 10 candidates will be selected from applicants: They must offer new enterprise AI solutions, but we will select five that are seed stage (less than $10M in total funding raised) and five that are series A or later. If you are a division of a larger company, you can enter as part of the late-stage division. If have a story to tell, and an AI product or service that offers up real business results and use cases, please submit your application by 5 p.m. PT on June 1, 2023.
Separately, if you want to ensure your AI product or company gets exposure at VB Transform, be sure to look into our new Gen AI Enterprise Innovation Alley. Up to 20 innovative companies (spanning both early and later stage) will be able to showcase their technology at VB Transform, network with senior-level execs from some of the most notable brands and tech companies. And the best Alley candidates will be selected (by popular vote) to be part of our Innovation Showcase stage presentations. Apply here for the Innovation Alley by June 15.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
