Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Event Launch your product at Transform 2020 — The AI event for enterprise decision makers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Airbnb Homes CTO Vanja Josifovski onstage with VentureBeat founder Matt Marshall held July 10, 2019 at Hilton Union Square in San Francisco.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
VentureBeat is on the lookout for disruptive AI companies of all sizes that are ready to present new tech products or services on the main stage at Transform 2020: Accelerating your business with AI , hosted online this July 15-17.
Transform is the first major virtual AI event for business decision makers this year, and will have more than a thousand attendees.
Those companies selected for our AI Showcase will do so in front of hundreds, if not thousands, of industry decision makers. Every presenter will receive coverage from VentureBeat, placing your company squarely in front of our growing reader base of over 6 million monthly readers.
To be sure, with just three weeks left, the Showcase is almost full, but we do have some slots left.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Who should apply? Dynamic companies that have a new product to unveil that is immediately relevant to leaders and practitioners in the areas of AI and ML. Ideally, the companies will have a compelling use case that can incorporate a product demo, multimedia, and other creative ways of presenting their technology or solution on stage.
In total, up to thirteen B2B and/or B2C candidates will be selected from our pool of applicants. We welcome companies of all sizes. If you have a story to tell, and an AI product or service with tangible business results and demonstrative use cases, please submit your application here.
Want to ensure your AI startup gets exposure at Transform? Be sure to also look in into our Expo.
 Last year, over 50 innovative companies showcased their technology at our inaugural Transform Expo and networked with senior-level execs from some of the most notable brands and tech companies. This year, one expo participant will be voted to present on stage as part of the Tech Showcase.
Apply here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
