Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Arcion Cloud improves database replication with Databricks, Snowflake Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Arcion , which helps businesses replicate data from production databases so that it can be used to perform analysis on warehousing platforms like Databricks and Snowflake, today launched Arcion Cloud , a managed data replication service that Arcion says works “without a single line of code.” Last month, Arcion raised a $13 million series A round for its replication service. It comes at a time when enterprises need to replicate data from production databases like Oracle and MySQL to perform sophisticated analysis on the data, including running it through powerful applications like AI. In September, data integration giant Fivetran acquired HVR , which specialized in data replication and raised $565 million at a $5.6 billion valuation.
Like HVR, Arcion uses “change data capture” (CDC), which allows businesses to replicate data in real-time. CDC refers to identifying the changes to the source data and then synchronizing only these changes for replication, thus improving efficiency. Another competing replication service is Oracle Golden Gate, which is best used for data replication within Oracle.
Providing CDC as a service Today’s Arcion Cloud release is the first fully managed CDC data replication as a service that enables enterprises to “deploy high-performance, high-volume data pipelines in minutes instead of months,” the company said in a press release. The company added that, through just a few clicks, the platform provides interoperability for popular database technologies, initially including three sources, Oracle, MySQL and Snowflake and three targets, Databricks, Snowflake and SingleStore.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! While APIs have been used to connect software-as-a-service (SaaS) tools, data residing in transactional enterprise databases has mostly been locked up by design to ensure performance and security. This has made extracting enterprise data a time-consuming, resource-intensive task – resulting in slower analytics and unsustainable costs, given the increasing scale of real-time data.
The company said Arcion Cloud is available on AWS USA and will support Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud by the end of the year.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
