Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AMD acquires open-source AI software pioneer Nod.ai to fortify AI capabilities Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: VentureBeat made with Midjourney Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Advanced Micro Devices ( AMD ) announced today plans to acquire Nod.ai , a startup that specializes in optimizing AI software for high-performance hardware.
The purchase of Nod.ai, founded just three years ago, shows that AMD is serious about staking a claim in the rapidly growing AI chip market, which is expected to reach $383.7 billion by 2032 , according to industry analysts. Financial terms of the acquisition were not disclosed.
The agreement underscores AMD’s growth strategy in the AI sector, which is centered on an open software ecosystem that simplifies the adoption process for customers through developer tools, libraries, and models. This acquisition adds another feather to AMD’s cap as it continues its expansion into the rapidly evolving AI industry.
Strategic acquisition in of an open-source leader Nod.ai is a startup that provides key enabling technologies for future AI systems using advanced compiler-based approaches, instead of legacy handwritten kernels.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The company created the SHARK Machine Learning Distribution , which is built on LLVM, MLIR, OpenXLA’s IREE and Nod.ai’s tuning. Nod.ai’s software can accelerate the deployment of AI models across a broad range of platforms powered by AMD’s architectures, such as Instinct data center accelerators, Ryzen AI processors, EPYC processors, Versal SoCs and Radeon GPUs.
The acquisition is expected to significantly enhance AMD’s ability to provide AI customers with open software that allows them to easily deploy highly performant AI models tuned for AMD hardware, according to Vamsi Boppana, senior vice president, Artificial Intelligence Group at AMD.
“The acquisition of Nod.ai is expected to significantly enhance our ability to provide AI customers with open software that allows them to easily deploy highly performant AI models tuned for AMD hardware,” he said in a statement.
AMD has been investing heavily in AI technologies in recent years , such as CDNA, XDNA, RDNA and Zen architectures, to compete with rivals like Nvidia and Intel in the fast-growing AI market. According to an industry report, the global AI market size is estimated to reach around $594 billion by 2032.
In addition to the technology, AMD said it aims to leverage the engineering talent from Nod.ai to boost its open-source developer cred. Nod.ai is a contributor to AI software repositories like SHARK and Torch-MLIR used by many researchers.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
