Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Bard can now tap directly into Gmail, Docs, Maps and more Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Image Credit: Google Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Google announced a major upgrade to its Bard conversational AI system today, expanding its capabilities to connect with Google’s most popular productivity apps and services. The enhancements are aimed at making Bard more useful in day-to-day tasks while also addressing concerns about accuracy.
Starting today, Bard can now directly access information from apps like Gmail, Docs, Maps, Flights, and YouTube to provide more comprehensive and personalized responses within a conversation. For example, when planning a trip, Bard can now automatically pull relevant dates, flight info, directions and sightseeing recommendations — all within one conversation.
The upgrade comes after Bard’s underwhelming public launch in March, which showcased factual inaccuracies in many of its responses. Google is hoping the integration with its search engine will help Bard become more accurate. Users can now click a “Google it” button to fact-check Bard’s responses against indexed web information within the chat.
Google emphasized that it remains committed to protecting users’ personal information following the update. If someone chooses to use the Workspace extensions, their content from Gmail, Docs, and Drive is not seen by human reviewers, used by Bard to show them ads, or used to train the Bard model. Users remain in control of their privacy settings.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The company has also made it easier to build on others’ conversations with Bard. Starting today, when someone shares a Bard chat with a user through a public link, the receiving individual can continue the conversation and ask Bard additional questions about that topic or use it as a starting point for their own ideas.
Google is also expanding access to existing English language features such as the ability to upload images with Lens , get Search images in responses, and modify Bard’s responses to more than 40 languages.
While still limited, Bard’s new features point to a future where AI assistants can seamlessly blend conversational abilities with services like email and documents to boost productivity. As Bard continues to improve, it may further integrate with other Google offerings like calendar, photos and analytics.
The Bard upgrades roll out starting today. Google plans to add more languages and integrations in the coming months as it continues to refine the technology responsibly.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
