Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Join VentureBeat and Anzu Partners for our first DC meetup: ‘AI ❤️ DC’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn VentureBeat is partnering with Anzu Partners on an exclusive gathering for the AI community in Washington DC this coming Thursday, October 26: AI ❤️ DC! Join us for an evening of incisive discussions and high-level networking, spotlighting the rapidly evolving landscape of AI and its implications for national security in the city that’s at the heart of policy and innovation.
In attendance from VentureBeat will be editorial director Michael Nuñez , senior reporter Sharon Goldman, and head of news Carl Franzen.
 Anzu Partners will also be there, marking their presence as trailblazers in breakthrough industrial and life sciences technologies.
Whether you’re a policy maker shaping the legislative landscape, an investor identifying groundbreaking opportunities, an entrepreneur navigating the next frontier of innovation, or an AI enthusiast keen on engaging with the vanguard of the industry, AI ❤️ DC offers an exceptional platform for connection, dialogue, and inspiration.
Enjoy complimentary food and drinks as you engage with some of the most influential minds in AI and national security. Participate in insightful conversations, exchange ideas, explore collaborations, and celebrate Washington DC’s thriving AI culture.
We are convinced that through these shared experiences and connections, we can collectively shape the future of AI in Washington DC, fostering an environment of innovation, legislative insight, and collective progress.
Find all the location details, timing, and RSVP here.
 Space is limited. We look forward to seeing you there! RSVP to AI❤️DC Meetup VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
