Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AI leaders back out of Web Summit after CEO’s comments about Israel Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Update, Tues. Oct. 17 at 4 pm ET: This morning, Paddy Cosgrave posted an apology on the Web Summit website that reads in part: “I understand that what I said, the timing of what I said, and the way it has been presented has caused profound hurt to many. To anyone who was hurt by my words, I apologise deeply.” The Israel-Hamas war has rippled into the technology and artificial intelligence (AI) sector, as several industry leaders have withdrawn from the Web Summit in Lisbon, Europe’s premier technology conference taking place in November. This decision comes in response to the event’s founder and CEO, Paddy Cosgrave, calling Israel’s actions in response to Hamas’ October 7 surprise terror attack “war crimes.” I’m shocked at the rhetoric and actions of so many Western leaders & governments, with the exception in particular of Ireland’s government, who for once are doing the right thing. War crimes are war crimes even when committed by allies, and should be called out for what they are.
The Web Summit, known for its impressive roster of global tech luminaries and innovative startups, serves as a crucial networking platform in the tech world. It’s a spotlight for cutting-edge technology and a venue for critical discussions around the industry’s future. The impact of these notable withdrawals could potentially disrupt the event’s influence, signalling a significant development in the intersection of technology, politics and global issues.
Cosgrave, an Irish entrepreneur known for his outspoken nature, took to X (the social media platform formerly known as Twitter) to express his views.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “I’m shocked at the rhetoric and actions of so many Western leaders & governments, with the exception in particular of Ireland’s government, who for once are doing the right thing,” he posted on Oct. 13. “War crimes are war crimes even when committed by allies, and should be called out for what they are.” He remained unyielding in his stance, affirming that he “would not relent.” In protest, a variety of AI and tech leaders have announced they will cancel their appearances at Web Summit in response. Today, Garry Tan, president and CEO of Y combinator, tweeted that he is cancelling his appearance at Web Summit, while Ori Goshen, co-founder of AI21 Labs, said he is cancelling his keynote speech. Sequoia partner Ravi Gupta has cancelled his attendance, and Keith Peiris, co-founder and CEO of Tome, said he has cancelled his Web Summit talk.
I refuse to appear at Web Summit and am canceling my appearance.
I condemn Hamas and pray for peace for the Israeli and Palestinian people.
https://t.co/0m2DiDsRJI pic.twitter.com/dkyCuwuJfi VC Josh Kopelman noted that next year’s Web Summit is scheduled to be in Qatar, which has been called out for human rights issues: Some are also tweeting at Big Tech sponsors of Web Summit, such as Intel (which is one of the biggest global companies working in Israel) and AWS to cancel their sponsorships, while others are using the hashtag #cancelwebsummit.
In addition, the Israeli ambassador to Portugal, Dor Shapira, said today that Israel will not participate in Web Summit’s Lisbon event. He posted on X/Twitter that he had written to the mayor of Lisbon, informing him of Israel’s decision to pull out of the conference “due to the outrageous statements” made by Cosgrave.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
