Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages White House AI executive order said to be 100+ pages Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Photo by Sharon Goldman Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
A trustworthy source who has read the Biden Administration’s widely-anticipated AI executive order, which is poised to be released on Monday, told VentureBeat that the EO is “the longest” he could recall seeing, at over 100 pages.
Coincidentally, the discussion occurred last night at an AI ❤️ DC event hosted by VentureBeat and Anzu Partners with a rooftop view of the White House, during a week that included several AI-related gatherings in DC, including Wednesday’s second Senate AI Insight Forum.
There was plenty of chatter at the rooftop event about the upcoming AI executive order, which according to The Washington Post , would require “advanced AI models to undergo assessments before they can be used by federal workers.” One attendee told VentureBeat she had been invited to a White House event scheduled for Monday afternoon that will accompany the release of the AI executive order. The Washington Post said the event, called “Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Artificial Intelligence,” will be hosted by the president.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Another pointed out that the date of the EO release is no coincidence — coming just two days the UK’s AI Safety Summit — saying that the US clearly wants to show that they are leading on AI regulation. It also comes before EU officials reach a deal on the EU AI Act , which is anticipated to be passed by the end of the year.
Several others told VentureBeat that the AI executive order, while limited, does use one of the Biden Administration’s few options to unilaterally tackle AI regulation — the federal government’s status and leverage as a top technology customer. As the EO will require advanced AI models to undergo auditing and assessments before they can be used by federal workers, the idea is that this will encourage vendors selling to the federal government to make those audits part of their offering to their other non-government customers.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
