Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages IBM expands AWS partnership to bring generative AI to call centers, supply chains Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
IBM Consulting, the professional services arm of IBM , today announced the plan to expand its partnership with Amazon Web Services (AWS) and re-engineer their joint solutions for enterprise clients with generative AI, targeting three areas to start: contact centers, cloud value chain and supply chain.
“Enterprise clients are looking for expert help to build a strategy and develop generative AI use cases that can drive business value and transformation — while mitigating risks,” said Manish Goyal, senior partner and global AI & analytics leader at IBM Consulting, in a press release statement. “Paired with IBM’s AI heritage and deep expertise in business transformation on AWS, this suite of re-engineered solutions with embedded generative AI capabilities can help our mutual clients to scale generative AI applications rapidly and responsibly on their platform of choice.” In addition to the GenAI offerings, the company also plans to train as many as 10,000 of its consultants on AWS generative AI services and make watsonx services available on the cloud platform. The latter will make it easier for enterprises to use IBM’s data, AI, and security solutions through AWS.
Key solutions reimagined with generative AI For contact centers, the companies are upgrading IBM Consulting CCM (contact center modernization), the comprehensive managed service that combines contact center capabilities of Amazon Connect with multiple IBM-specific features like Watson Assistant and omnichannel integration.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! IBM said the offering will now use generative AI for summarizing and categorizing voice and digital interactions, simplifying the transfer from a chatbot to a live agent.
While gen AI-powered CCM will improve contact center operations, IBM Platform Services on AWS will use the technology to help teams better manage the entire cloud value chain, starting from IT Ops and automation to platform engineering. According to the company, generative AI-powered features like intelligent issue resolution and observability will enable users to enhance business serviceability and availability for applications hosted on AWS.
Similarly, supply chain professionals will get a generative AI-powered virtual assistant on AWS that will accelerate workflows and help them optimize inventories, reduce costs, streamline logistics and assess risks.
What’s more from IBM and AWS? Beyond the re-engineered solutions, IBM Consulting plans to make AWS generative AI services, such as Amazon SageMaker , CodeWhisperer and Bedrock , available on its proprietary IBM Consulting Cloud Accelerator to help enterprises modernize on AWS. It also plans to work with the cloud major to train 10,000 of its consultants on the top use cases and best practices for these services by the end of 2024.
Finally, the company will take its own data and AI to AWS. To do this, watsonx.data, a fit-for-purpose data store built on an open lakehouse architecture, will be made available on the AWS Marketplace as a fully managed SaaS offering. This will be followed with watsonx.ai and watsonx.governance, which will be available on the platform in 2024.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
