Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Jobs These are the top VC locations in the USA for startups — and jobs Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn It will surprise few that San Francisco is deemed to have the most developed VC ecosystems in the world. That’s according to a new report issued by financial data and software company PitchBook , which also found that the U.S. and Asia account for 85% of the 20 most-developed VC ecosystems, and 65% of the 20 highest-growth VC ecosystems are in Europe or the U.S.
It’s no secret that securing VC funding has become increasingly challenging over the last 18 months. Startups and scaling tech companies have shed staff numbers en masse, as without the guarantee of fresh investment a renewed focus on profitability is seen across the board.
However, there are always locations that buck trends and investment seekers and job hunters in the U.S. would do well to set their sights on San Francisco and New York in particular.
Though a considerable volume and value of VC activity moves through both cities, New York averaged less than half the startup investment that San Francisco attracted over a six year period (Q3 2017 – Q2 2023), securing $153.2bn investment versus The Golden City’s $364.5bn.
Los Angeles ($123.1bn) and Boston ($99.2bn) also ranked highly in terms of development, and joined cities like Beijing, Shanghai, London, Shenzhen, Seoul and Hangzhou in the top ten. Washington DC, Seattle, Austin, San Diego and Denver made up the U.S. contingent of the top 20 most developed VC ecosystems.
Locations to watch The report also examined growth rates of activity. Detroit came second to Dubai in the growth rankings as the city emerged as a tech hub, while Raleigh and Houston completed the top five alongside Berlin.
Additionally Indianapolis, Miami, Philadelphia and St Louis also landed spots in the top 20.
Across overall scores for development and growth, North America nabbed 20 of the top 50 spots, followed by Asia (16), Europe (12) and the Middle East (1), making it the most attractive region for VC investment.
And of course, wherever funding is, jobs are. The VentureBeat Job Board is continuously updated with tech jobs across the U.S., with remote and hybrid opportunities also advertised. Take a look at these three roles and visit the job board for more.
Senior Software Engineer (Java), Account Management Platform (Hybrid), ThousandEyes, San Francisco Acquired by Cisco in 2020, ThousandEyes is a performance monitoring stack for remote and hybrid workers that monitors internet challenges that disrupt worker productivity, impacts revenue and brand reputation. The organization is seeking a Senior Software Engineer for its Account Management Platform team; you’ll be responsible for maintaining critical platform APIs such as user management, authentication and contract enforcement. Ideally the candidate will have over six years of software development experience, will be comfortable working with newer technologies and have expert level understanding of object-oriented programming languages (Java, C++, etc).
See more here.
Solutions Engineer, Pryon, New York Having recently raised $100m in a funding round led by Thomas Tull’s U.S. Innovative Technology Fund, start-up Pryon is developing an AI-powered platform to analyze enterprise data. Currently seeking a Solutions Engineer who can balance technical expertise with strong interpersonal skills, this role is perfect for someone who is strong in AI/<L/NLP and software development, but also in client-facing situations. The successful candidate will lead technical activities, develop and scope solutions, create custom demos and lead customer trials. Preferred experience includes knowledge of development and deployment across multiple cloud providers such as Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, VMWare and OpenStack, and at least two years professional experience with Golang, Python, Javascript or other programming languages.
Find out more now.
Applications Engineer, Richmond American Homes, Denver Property developers Richmond American Homes, part of MDC Holdings, Inc, is advertising for a full-time E1 Applications Engineer with experience in the Oracle JDE EOne ERP environment. In this role, the successful candidate will design, develop and maintain applications and systems in line with best practices and standards. By collaborating with JDE EnterpriseOne functional consultants and development teams, this engineer will create integrated solutions that are scalable and adaptable. A bachelor’s degree in computer science, computer engineering, information systems or equivalent experience is ideal, as is 3+ years’ experience with Oracle JD Edwards E1 development toolset.
Apply here.
Interested in joining a scaling start-up? Check out the VentureBeat Job Board today.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
