Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Marketing software Anyword adds integrations to ChatGPT, Notion AI, and Canva AI Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: VentureBeat made with Midjourney Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Anyword, a marketing copywriting software company, was early with some of the technology trends and buzzwords now gripping Silicon Valley, like natural language processing (NLP) and AI. It has deployed both for years, training its GPT 3-based copywriting AI model on two billion datapoints from marketing copy across industries. This enables its marketer customers to create copy optimized to perform well and get specific demographics to click.
Little wonder that in 2015 , it secured series A funding from former Google CEO Eric Schmidt and an early customer, The New York Times.
Today, the company is adding more to its in-house AI offerings, bringing its customers new integrations with the buzziest AI models in marketing: OpenAI’s ChatGPT , Notion AI from note-taking and brainstorming startup Notion, and the graphic design web app Canva AI.
(Anyword, now headquartered in New York City, was founded 10 years ago in Israel under a different name: Keywee.) VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Anyword’s goal is conceptually simple but logistically ambitious: to allow the marketers and creative clients who are already using (or considering using) its web software to be able to use those three aforementioned third-party AI tools while staying aligned with their brand voice and what has previously resonated with their target audiences.
As Anyword puts it in a news release: “ChatGPT and other LLMs are not built for marketing; they don’t know the brand’s voice, product, or customers, or what resonates with their base.” Instead, in Anyword’s vision of AI for marketers, Anyword performs an “instant website scan” on a client’s website and then scores the outputs of a marketer’s prompts to ChatGPT, Notion AI or Canva AI, grading them on a 1-100 scale with how well they align to client’s “tone of voice, brand rules, product and company details, and target audiences.” Anyword customers can then also click “Boost Performance” to further refine their copy to fit the target audience and brand voice, ensuring their marketing emails or advertisements are as resonant and engaging as they can be.
“Users can seamlessly incorporate their brand identity and target audiences into an LLM [large language model] using our integration,” said Yaniv Makover, CEO and cofounder of Anyword, in a statement provided to press. “That means the copy they create with ChatGPT, Notion AI, Canva AI — and soon anywhere they generate or write content — will be on-brand and performance-driven, with predictive analytics that has been shown to increase conversion by 30%.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
