Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Emperia outfits Tommy Hilfiger with cross-metaverse virtual hub Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Premium lifestyle brand Tommy Hilfiger today launched a cross-metaverse virtual hub in partnership with 3D technology and virtual reality (VR) platform provider Emperia.
 As part of the launch, the retailer is simultaneously unveiling several virtual experiences across various platforms, including Decentraland, Roblox, Spatial, DressX and Ready Player Me.
To simplify the process of navigating among these virtual worlds, the Emperia platform will provide a central hub to easily move in and out of each experience.
The Tommy Hilfiger metaverse hub will be available online starting today.
Because today’s metaverse distribution requires placement on multiple non-integrating platforms, companies face special challenges in assuring consistent branding. Emperia’s interoperable approach, as in its collaboration with Tommy Hilfiger, bridges the gap and enables multi-world experiences to be integrated into brands’ Web3 and ecommerce strategies.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Emperia’s gateway connects fragmented environments, providing users with a seamless experience that enables them to enjoy each platform’s unique capabilities without having to choose among them. As a result, the hub creates a new, unique brand experience said to exceed physical retail alternatives.
Streaming a cross-metaverse with style The Emperia-created hub features DressX-powered digital fashion, Web3 artist collaborations with Vinnie Hagar, AR features, a photo booth, gamification and a community-focused competition to create AI fashion. Tommy Hilfiger’s well-known “TH” monogram will appear across all platforms, creating a unified digital brand story, while providing movement between the retailer’s website and the various metaverses, delivering an end-to-end shopping journey with a unique impact.
Emperia’s rendering capabilities standardize graphic quality across platforms, creating an easily accessible and high-performance experience without requiring users to download any special software. The experience is available on almost any device.
Some metaverse platforms limit payment options to cryptocurrency.
 By integrating with the retailer’s ecommerce platform, Emperia provides users with a wider range of payment options, reducing friction and increasing user confidence, resulting in higher online sales.
Overall, with the cross-metaverses hub, Emperia aims to introduce a new layer of interoperability, blurring the frontiers of Web3, and enabling connections between the metaverse, ecommerce, entertainment and direct performance, all backed by data. Meanwhile, Emperia’s dataset capabilities allow granular insights into the user journey and engagement across different metaverse experiences, enabling a cross-data approach that was never offered before.
Emperia and Tommy Hilfiger: Dressed for iconic success The Tommy Hilfiger digital hub also aims to improve the product experience by offering four exclusive items, with the iconic Varsity Jacket taking the lead, presented in various aesthetic representations across all platforms.
Customers can purchase the jacket in two forms: physical, connected to Tommy’s ecommerce platform, and digital, connected to the DressX digital fashion platform. The Emperia hub provides access to the physical jacket for sale, while the Ready Player Me platform offers the digital version, which can be used across various games and environments, increasing the interoperability options.
“Emperia is continuing to change the face of virtual retail, pushing the envelope and supporting retailers along their ecommerce transition journey,” said Olga Dogadkina, co-founder and CEO of Emperia. She highlighted the industry’s movement towards collaboration, with each technology vendor leveraging its unique capabilities and traits under Emperia’s virtual environments.
The collaboration with Tommy Hilfiger and the PVH group is an example of this, creating a brand-new digital retail environment that enhances user experience and encourages brand engagement and shopper loyalty by consolidating the fragmented industry into a streamlined experience.
The ultimate goal is to increase ecommerce performance by centralizing the payment process and allowing users to freely navigate across the retailer’s online properties.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
