Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages More collaboration, more standards on deck for big data, Pivotal exec says Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Scott Yara, the senior vice president of products at Pivotal, speaks at the 2013 DataBeat/Data Science Summit.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
REDWOOD CITY, Calif. — Pivotal executive Scott Yara takes heart from companies laying out billions for big data and analytics technologies.
“I haven’t seen a healthier funding environment for these kinds of technologies ever, which is really neat to see,” Yara, Pivotal’s senior vice president of products, said in his keynote at VentureBeat’s DataBeat/Data Science Summit event today.
The glory days of big data are here, and we’re perhaps a decade into the first wave of the resurgence of data and analytics, said Yara, a founder of Greenplum, a big data analytics company that EMC acquired in 2010.
Yara is looking forward to the future of data science. He has a few predictions of trends that he expects to take hold in the near future: Strong standards should emerge. “The role of standards have kind of come and gone over the last 20 years,” Yara said, mentioning the IEEE and W3C as examples of governing bodies. Standards are needed, particularly as more companies are commercializing open-source technologies.Hadoop distribution vendors, hosted database providers, and even Yara’s own company deal in this sort of strategy. “Our most critical technology investments are all based on open-source technologies,” Yara said. Standards can help make sure that anyone can contribute to open-source projects, Yara said.
Collaboration across firms, countries, and other groups will become more important across companies. That way, there will be less unnecessary duplication of efforts, with employees at many companies collecting data in silos.”We think collaboration is going to be this huge new opportunity for all of us around data,” he said. “There needs to be a common point to sort of collaborate around data.”At the same time, Yara said he’s interested in seeing how collaboration can get more popular without sacrificing privacy.
Software will become even more critical. Pivotal executives have been vocal on how data and analytics can help developers build better applications, and Yara showed his belief in this during his keynote. Data science and applications are “really hitched together forever,” he said.Reworking applications based on insights that come from data is part of what Yara called “a closed loop of innovation” — just the sort of thing that resounds with enterprises that want to move as fast as startups. The faster companies cycle through application development, collection of data, and analysis of data, the faster innovation, disruption, and problem solving can happen, he said.
Overall, Yara foresees big data playing a larger role for role in business technology.
“It’s a very, very unsettling time for most enterprise IT organizations,” he said. “They know that they’re under huge change. … How do you innovate while maintaining cost controls actually, acquiring talent, know-how, and methodologies, where you can do all these things?” Those are hard problems, but these are problems Pivotal is trying to solve.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
