Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages With new release, Apprenda bets on the hybrid cloud Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Apprenda, a startup that claims to transform legacy infrastructure into modern cloud-based architectures, has announced its new 4.0 release.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Apprenda , a startup that claims to transform legacy infrastructure into modern cloud-based architectures, has announced its latest release. The update allows a customer to run hybrid platform as a service (Paas) simultaneously between the data center and its existing cloud infrastructure.
Apprenda makes it easier for developers to deploy and scale their applications; the service itself is the brainchild of a former application developer. Prior to founding the company, CEO Sinclar Schuller was a software developer at global investment bank Morgan Stanley. He told VentureBeat in a phone conversation his team would often receive requests from a colleague on the business side with a “big idea” for a custom app.
CloudBeat 2012 assembles the biggest names in the cloud’s evolving story to uncover real cases of revolutionary adoption. Unlike other cloud events, the customers themselves are front and center. Their discussions with vendors and other experts give you rare insights into what really works, who’s buying what, and where the industry is going. CloudBeat takes place Nov. 28-29 in Redwood City, Calif.
Register today! “It took us three months to write the new [app] out and another three months to deploy it,” said Schuller. “It seemed wrong that we were wasting half the time waiting for an app to be deployed.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! To increase productivity for companies like Morgan Stanley, he set to work on an idea to streamline the process of building these “exotic software infrastructures.” Schuller claims Apprenda shaves about 18 months off development time. The original idea was to develop a private cloud product that big enterprises would run in-house.
After some internal wrangling over the merits of public versus private cloud, Schuller came to the realization that a hybrid cloud approach made most sense.
“Enterprise customers are saying, ‘We want a private cloud to feel like a public cloud,'” he said. Using Apprenda, CIOs can run apps in Windows Azure cloud and other cloud environments that use Windows Server 2012.
With the new release, users can install Apprenda in a data center and point it to a cloud infrastructure like Amazon or Azure to manage them all from one centralized dashboard.
Apprenda has established itself by providing on-premise PaaS solutions to large pharmaceutical companies and financial services firms; it competes with VMware’s Cloud Foundry and new players to the on-premise PaaS market such as AppFog.
To explain his grand vision for Apprenda, Schuller uses an analogy of an old house. Instead of demolishing it and building a new house from scratch, why not remodel it with modern fixtures? The outcome will be the same as a custom home, but you’ll save time and resources. “Companies can migrate an app to the cloud without having to worry about altering it or rebuilding it from scratch,” he said.
Schuller will speak about the growing demand for PaaS at CloudBeat , a conference that highlights the most innovative cloud companies. CloudBeat is unique with its emphasis on customer case-studies. It’s not abstract theories and ideas — executives will reveal their hard-frought solutions to very real technology problems.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
