Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: Hackers leaked over 721 million passwords in 2022 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
There’s no simpler way to hack someone’s account than to enter their username and password. In fact, threat actors routinely leak users’ login credentials on the dark web , where they can be purchased by cybercriminals and fraudsters to commit further crimes.
According to research released today by Cybercrime Analytics (C2A) provider SpyCloud , researchers discovered 721.5 million exposed credentials online in 2022. Many of these credentials were harvested from third-party business applications exposed to malware.
To make matters worse, researchers also found that 72% of users whose credentials were exposed in last year’s breaches were found to be still using already-compromised passwords.
Passwords: The fastest route to enterprise data For security leaders, this research highlights that password security — and ensuring that employees aren’t reusing compromised credentials — are essential for mitigating risks to data assets. Failure at this can result in significant exposure to account takeover attempts.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Cybercriminals can use exposed credentials to gain illegitimate access to enterprise networks under the guise of employee and consumer accounts, opening the door for more cyberattacks such as the distribution of ransomware and malware , additional data theft, and synthetic identity creation,” said Trevor Hilligoss, director of security research at SpyCloud.
“If the credentials were freshly stolen via malware and remain active, they pose a long-term threat to corporations as criminals can use the same credentials to access accounts until the issue is identified and addressed,” Hilligoss said.
With such a high volume of exposed login credentials available online, it’s important to remind employees to select strong passwords, periodically change them (particularly if they believe they’ve been exposed online), and use a password management solution to help avoid reuse of credentials across multiple online accounts and services.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
