Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Code Interpreter comes to all ChatGPT Plus users — ‘anyone can be a data analyst now’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: VentureBeat made with Midjourney Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
OpenAI first announced third-party software application plug-ins for its hit service ChatGPT back in March, allowing users to extend its functionality to doing things like reading full PDFs. This week, the company said that it is taking one of its own in-house plug-ins, Code Interpreter , and making it available to all of its ChatGPT Plus subscribers.
Code Interpreter “lets ChatGPT run code, optionally with access to files you’ve uploaded,” an OpenAI spokesperson wrote on the company’s continuously updated ChatGPT release notes blog.
 “You can ask ChatGPT to analyze data, create charts, edit files, perform math, etc.” With a wide-ranging toolbox and a large memory, the AI can write code in Python and manipulate files up to 500MB in size.
Code Interpreter allows ChatGPT Plus users to generate charts, maps, data visualizations and graphics, analyze music playlists, create interactive HTML files, clean datasets and extract color palettes from images. The interpreter unlocks a myriad of capabilities, making it a powerful tool for data visualization, analysis and manipulation.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Little wonder, then, that the early reactions from ChatGPT power users and tech influencers are resoundingly positive.
New powers, unlocked Linas Beliūnas, Europe country manager and Lithuania GM of Flutterwave wrote a review on his LinkedIn : “OpenAI is unlocking their most powerful feature since GPT-4 to everyone. Anyone can be a data analyst now.” Beliūnas helpfully included a slideshow on his post showing 10 examples of new data visualization and analysis tasks he was able to produce with ChatGPT using Code Interpreter, including creating an interactive HTML “heatmap” of UFO sightings from around the U.S. using only an “unpolished dataset.” Ethan Mollick, an associate professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and prominent AI influencer, wrote on his Substack newsletter “One Useful Thing,” that ChatGPT with Code Interpreter is “the single most useful, interesting mode of AI I have used.” Mollick wrote that Code Interpreter “makes the AI much more versatile,” and can provide structured data to back up points a user might wish to make: “For example, I asked it to prove to a doubter that the Earth is round with code, and it provided multiple arguments, integrating the text with code and images.” Countering user grumblings Another example Mollick showed off was in downloading a public list of superheroes and their powers and asking ChatGPT with Code Interpreter on to analyze them.
“When asked about the results of the network analysis, it came to interesting conclusions: The set of powers that heroes commonly had were visual in nature (because they were from comic books), fit certain archetypes and were best suited to building continuing adventures,” Mollick wrote.
The new use cases should also help OpenAI to counter the growing rumblings from some users, particularly those who participate in the ChatGPT and AI Reddit subreddits, who have observed that ChatGPT is becoming more restricted and less capable over time, prohibiting certain conversation topics and lines of inquiry.
Safety first (and continuously) Safety remains the focal point of Code Interpreter’s design. The primary aim is to ensure that AI-generated code does not lead to any unforeseen repercussions in the real world. As users explore and discover novel applications, OpenAI plans to continue refining safety protocols based on the knowledge gained from this beta version.
One of the most intriguing applications of Code Interpreter is in data science, where it has been described as operating at an “advanced level.” It can automate complex quantitative analyses, merge and clean data and even reason about data in a human-like manner. The AI can produce visualizations and dashboards, which users can then refine and customize simply by conversing with the AI. Its ability to create downloadable outputs adds another layer of usability to Code Interpreter.
Mollick said the tool offers the strongest case yet for AI as a valuable companion in sophisticated knowledge work. While human oversight remains crucial, the new feature reduces the rote work, enabling more meaningful, in-depth work.
“Code Interpreter represents the clearest positive vision so far of what AIs can mean for work: Disruption, yes, but disruption that leads to better, more meaningful work,” said Mollick.
Code Interpreter is clearly setting a new standard for the future of AI and data science. With this tool, OpenAI is pushing the boundaries of ChatGPT and large language models (LLMs) generally yet again.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
