Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft makes Azure Site Recovery available to all, offers free on-premises replication for 1 month Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A remnant of the time when Microsoft's public cloud, Azure, carried the Windows moniker in its name hangs in building 42 on the Microsoft campus in Redmond, Wash.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Microsoft today announced that its Azure Site Recovery service — for backing up companies workloads in the Microsoft public cloud in order to keep them available in the event of a disaster — is now generally available.
Microsoft launched a preview of Azure Site Recovery in June 2014. The service previously went by the name Hyper-V Recovery Manager. In March Microsoft said Azure Site Recovery could handle backup of VMware workloads and physical servers.
And now that the service is generally available, Microsoft really wants companies to try it out — so it’s making a compelling offer.
“Customers can replicate on-premises workloads to Azure with Azure Site Recovery for 31 days at no charge, effectively making migration to Azure free,” Microsoft cloud and enterprise program manager Abhishek Hemrajani wrote in a blog post on the news today.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Disaster recovery is far from the hippest thing that you can do in a public cloud, but it’s important — companies are willing to shell out good money to assure themselves that their applications and data keep running no matter what. VMware itself has a disaster recovery service in its vCloud Air public cloud. Amazon Web Services, the leading public cloud, and Google Cloud Platform do not offer dedicated disaster recovery services. Now that Azure Site Recovery is generally available, that may change soon.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
