Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 85% of financial leaders are preparing for possible recession and economic disruption in 2023 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
OneStream , a leader in corporate performance management (CPM) solutions, recently commissioned a report through Hanover Research to survey finance leaders across North America on responses to economic challenges and budget priorities for the upcoming year.
The findings revealed that ongoing global disruption continues to impact financial planning. In fact, 85% of financial leaders are reforecasting in preparation for an impending recession and nearly half (47%) identified economic disruption as the largest threat to business in 2023.
The looming recession will make hiring plans conservative in 2023, especially in accounting and finance departments. Finance leaders will need to invest in more automation and digital technology to increase productivity with the current talent shortage. Most leaders (57%) are planning to invest more in cloud-based planning and reporting solutions in 2023, while almost half (48%) will invest more in predictive analytics.
 Sixty-one percent already use cloud-based planning and reporting solutions, and 37% utilize predictive analytics.
Meanwhile, only 37% of companies will invest more in machine learning (ML). With AutoML technology poised to reduce the barriers to adoption of machine learning, and although cost is still an obstacle, almost half (48%) of all financial decision-makers say their organizations plan to investigate AutoML solutions. In fact, one-quarter (28%) have already adopted AutoML solutions.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! When asked about the top use cases for artificial intelligence (AI) and ML technology, 48% see financial reporting as the top opportunity. Finance leaders see sales and revenue forecasting (41%), demand planning (39%), and sales and marketing optimization (39%) as additional opportunities for these technologies.
However, for businesses facing technical and security issues, almost half (49%) say there’s a lack of trust in new technology solutions, which is deterring new investments.
The study, conducted in September 2022, sourced insights from 657 finance decision-makers (management to C-suite) in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Respondents are employed by companies across numerous industries and varying revenues, with 34% employed by companies with more than $1 billion in annual revenue.
Read the full report from OneStream.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
