Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 97% of software testing pros are using automation Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Is software testing getting easier or harder? Are testers making use of modern tools to accelerate product release cycles, or are they bogged down by manual processes? To better understand the answers to these questions, Kobiton asked 150 testers in companies with at least 50 employees across a range of industries.
It turns out, software testers are relying more on automation than ever before, driven by a desire to lower testing costs and improve software quality and user experience.
For context, there are two kinds of software testing: manual and automated. Manual is still common but it’s not ideal for repetitive tests, leading many testers to choose automation, which can expedite development and app performance. To wit, 40% of testers responding to Kobiton’s study said their primary motivation for using automation is improving user experience.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Automation in software testing has come a long way “In a study we conducted two years ago, half the testers we asked said their automation programs were relatively new, and 76% said they were automating fewer than 50% of all tests,” said Kevin Lee, CEO of Kobiton. “Nearly 100% of testers participating in this year’s study are using automation, which speaks to how far the industry has come.” Testing managers are prioritizing new hires with automation experience, too. Kobiton’s study found that automation experience is one of the three skills managers are most interested in.
And how is automation being used? A plurality (34%) of respondents to Kobiton’s survey said they are using automation for an equal mix of regression and new feature testing.
And it’s made them more efficient. Almost half (47%) of survey respondents said it takes 3-5 days for manual testing before a release, whereas automated tests can have it done in 3-6 hours.
“A desire to increase automation testing was the top priority listed by testers responding to our 2022 study. Automation clearly is the wave of the future,” said Lee.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
