Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 97% of C-level executives worry about videoconference security Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
>>Don’t miss our special issue: How Data Privacy Is Transforming Marketing.
<< A new survey of IT pros from Zerify , a leading cybersecurity company focused on secure videoconferencing solutions, reports that 82% of respondents say nation-state cyberthreats have increased. Sixty-nine percent believe cyberattackers could breach their videoconferencing platforms, and 84% stated that if they were breached, they believed attackers could steal intellectual property, sensitive company data and trade secrets.
Highlights of the survey of 1,000 IT professionals include: 92% reported that they are aware of security vulnerabilities in videoconferencing platforms.
Nation-state cyberthreats have increased at most (81.8%) companies.
The majority of IT professionals (89%) are concerned about foreign attacks as they see a rise in threats.
79% of respondents reported that they were very knowledgeable about the concept and framework of zero-trust cybersecurity, with 86% stating that their company had ZT cybersecurity policies.
Methodology The survey was conducted by an unbiased third-party organization, Propeller Insights, which surveyed 1,000 corporate respondents. 57% were C-level executives and 43% were IT decision-makers. Respondents weren’t paid for answers or told who sponsored the survey.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Read the full report from Zerify.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
