Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VentureBeat Special Issue: Intelligent Sustainability July 07, 2022 Intelligent Sustainability Presented with AMD In this issue… How green data centers can cut your carbon footprint Why hyperscale, modular data centers improve efficiency How efficient code increases sustainability in the enterprise Choose wisely — How technology decisions drive data center efficiency (sponsored) What is the environmental impact of Web3? What are dual-use data centers and how they drive energy efficiency Why data has a sustainability problem 19 ways digital twins improve data center sustainability Data centers and technology, in general, have always been seen as, well, energy hogs. Don’t expect that perception to change as power demands will only increase with computational-intensive AI models, power- and bandwidth-hungry Web3 and metaverse-like applications and the cloud — which MIT reports has a greater carbon footprint than the airline industry.
Customers, stakeholders and governments now demand accountability on climate impact, so there’s no shortage of compelling incentives to embrace sustainability.
Tech leaders must work toward energy efficiency to meet regulatory compliance, lower costs, attract and retain customers, and simply do the right thing. There’s no easy path to intelligent sustainability, but in this special report, VentureBeat looks at tools and practices you can use to make it achievable.
— Dan Muse , content director and managing editor How green data centers can cut your carbon footprint Peter Wayner Building a data center is a challenging mixture of architecture, network science and heat transfer. Many companies are also asking how they can do a good job on environmental questions.
READ MORE “ A major challenge is trying to understand just what makes a data center green.” Why data has a sustainability problem Ashleigh Hollowell What is the environmental impact of Web3? Chris Preimesberger Choose wisely — How technology decisions drive data center efficiency Ram Peddibhotla, AMD Sponsored Why hyperscale, modular data centers improve efficiency Chris Preimesberger Because of their size, hyperscale data centers offer advantages of economies of scale and custom engineering over enterprise data centers. Modular data center design offers flexibility by letting customers start smaller and increase in size based on need. This article looks at how those advantages impact sustainability models.
READ MORE “Industry thought leaders believe that by the end of the decade, about 75% of the world’s data centers will be drawing more than half of their power supply from renewable natural sources.” How efficient code increases sustainability in the enterprise George Anadiotis The Green Software Foundation is working to help companies measure the benefits of efficient code and its impact toward sustainability goals.
READ MORE “The heat produced by data centers can serve as a new resource for an energy cluster, an integrated heating source, or as a source for a steam system, which are all part of local district energy systems.
” What are dual-use data centers and how they drive energy efficiency Shubham Sharma 19 ways digital twins improve data center sustainability George Lawton Join the VentureBeat Community NEWSLETTERS NEWSLETTERS Connect with VentureBeat Transform Technology Summits GamesBeat Insider Series VB Live Webinars VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
