Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VentureBeat Special Issue — Building the foundation for customer data quality June 15, 2023 Building the foundation for customer data quality Presented with In this issue… Why data management matters: Turning analytics insights into income The Future of Software: Building Products with Privacy at the Core Turning Customer Data into Gold: The Key to Exceptional Experiences and Business Growth The true cost of dirty data — and how to address it head on (sponsored) Navigating the personalization minefield: How businesses can improve customer experiences and loyalty Data de-identification: Best practices in the new age of regulation Data collection and privacy: Understanding the legal limits Elevating customer experience: The rise of generative AI and conversational data analytics Customer data is the lifeblood of modern business. It can help enterprises gain critical insights by breaking down silos — whether they are isolating your data by people, geography, brand or anything else. Applying those insights the right way can help enterprises achieve business growth and build better customer experiences.
But customer data is also a double-edged sword. It can be a source of competitive advantage, but also a source of risk and liability. That’s why building a solid foundation for acquiring and using customer data is crucial for any enterprise that wants to succeed in the digital age. In this special report, we take a look at the best practices, challenges and opportunities for doing so.
We believe that customer data quality is not only a technical challenge but a strategic imperative for any enterprise that wants to stay ahead of the curve. We hope that this issue will inspire you to think critically and creatively about how you can use customer data to your advantage.
— Michael Nuñez Editorial Director Why data management matters: Turning analytics insights into income Victor Dey In the era of digital technology expansion, companies are accumulating large volumes of data on consumers’ activities both online and offline. At the same time, recognition of customer data’s immense value and potential to drive revenue growth is rising as companies realize that without the appropriate data — and data management — initiatives risk falling short of their potential.
Delivering a comprehensive customer experience holds immense importance. It plays a crucial role in acquiring new customers and retaining existing ones in today’s crowded digital landscape. In a world of increased globalization and an abundance of choices, customer experience assumes even greater significance.
READ MORE The Future of Software: Building Products with Privacy at the Core Louis Columbus Turning Customer Data into Gold: The Key to Exceptional Experiences and Business Growth Sri Krishna The true cost of dirty data — and how to address it head on Jim Skeffington, Treasure Data In order to ensure the data you’re activating is useful, actionable and accurate, it has to be clean. Otherwise, you risk making bad decisions based on bad data — and that can be costly.
READ MORE Sponsored Navigating the personalization minefield: How businesses can improve customer experiences and loyalty Shubham Sharma Data de-identification: Best practices in the new age of regulation Allen Bernard Elevating customer experience: The rise of generative AI and conversational data analytics Victor Dey Data collection and privacy: Understanding the legal limits Taryn Plumb “Piecing together the alphabet soup of proliferating regulations and translating it into clear and consistent requirements is a top priority and challenge for organizations.” READ MORE Join the VentureBeat Community NEWSLETTERS NEWSLETTERS Connect with VentureBeat Transform Technology Summits GamesBeat Insider Series VB Live Webinars VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
