Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VentureBeat Special Issue — Zero trust: The new security paradigm November 15, 2022 Zero trust: The new security paradigm Presented with PwC In this issue… Why enterprises are getting zero trust wrong How zero-trust methods thwart malicious hackers How zero trust closes security gaps in multicloud tech stacks 3 ways to overcome the cybersecurity skills gap (sponsored) 5 reasons zero trust is the future of endpoint security Why Kubernetes security challenges call for a zero-trust strategy Zero trust is too trusting, why ZTNA 2.0 won’t be The manufacturing industry’s security epidemic needs a zero-trust cure How zero-trust architectures can prevent supply chain attacks Why zero trust needs to live on the edge In the ‘80s hit cop drama, Hill Street Blues, sergeant Phil Esterhaus ended every daily roll call with, “Let’s be careful out there.” Fast-forward a few decades, and that mantra is one CISOs should use to lead their teams.
Today’s hybrid workforce, hybrid cloud, ransomware-infused world makes it imperative for teams to take extra caution. In short, trust no one, authenticate everyone. That’s where zero trust comes in. More than a single product, zero trust is a framework built to ensure that everyone is identified, authorized and authenticated before they access your applications and data. In a zero-trust environment, the network edge is everywhere – so that’s where security needs to be, too.
In our special report, we look at zero-trust architectures from all angles, including why companies are getting it wrong. We also dig into Kubernetes deployments, endpoint security and multicloud and supply chain management. We hope you find both strategic and tactical guidance in our special report. And, yes, be careful out there.
— Dan Muse Managing Editor and Content Director Why enterprises are getting zero trust wrong Tim Keary The reality of zero-trust adoption is that it’s a journey and not a destination. There is no quick fix for implementing zero trust because it’s a security methodology designed to be continuously applied throughout the environment to control user access. One of the most significant reasons that enterprises are getting zero trust wrong is not just about understanding what zero trust is, but also knowing how to apply it, and which products can implement zero trust.
READ MORE “ Organizations that get zero trust wrong are the ones looking for a quick fix or silver bullet.
” — Baber Amin, COO of Veridium.
How zero-trust methods thwart malicious hackers Taryn Plumb How zero trust closes security gaps in multicloud tech stacks Louis Columbus 3 ways to overcome the cybersecurity skills gap Vikas Agarwal and Matt Gorham, PwC Sponsored 5 reasons zero trust is the future of endpoint security Louis Columbus Endpoints that rely on the firmware to provide self-healing, and resilience enable ZTNA frameworks to identify every endpoint on a network — whether the device is connected or not.
READ MORE “ Zero trust requires protection everywhere — and that means ensuring some of the biggest vulnerabilities like endpoints and cloud environments are automatically and always protected.
” — Kapil Raina , CrowdStrike Why Kubernetes security challenges call for a zero-trust strategy Victor Dey The Kubernetes community and service mesh providers are linking arms toward standardizing on zero-trust security.
READ MORE Zero trust is too trusting, why ZTNA 2.0 won’t be Tim Keary ZTNA 2.0 applies least privileged access and implements continuous trust verification, monitoring user and app behavior.
READ MORE The manufacturing industry’s security epidemic needs a zero-trust cure Louis Columbus How zero-trust architectures can prevent supply chain attacks Victor Dey Why zero trust needs to live on the edge Louis Columbus Baking in zero-trust architecture can help secure edge computing and IoT in the cloud.
READ MORE Join the VentureBeat Community NEWSLETTERS NEWSLETTERS Connect with VentureBeat Transform Technology Summits GamesBeat Insider Series VB Live Webinars VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
