Indaba Organisers Affiliated Communities Sponsorship Prospectus PROGRAMME Speakers Workshops Practicals Research in Africa Showcase POSTERS SHORT PAPERS AFRICAN DATASETS AI PRODUCT DEMOS Accelerating Growth Through AI/ML Ideathon Google Outreach & Mentorship Programme Guidance for staying in Accra Travel Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Recognising our Reviewers Code of Ethics and Conduct IndabaX Awards Kambule Doctoral Award Alele-Williams Masters Award Maathai Impact Award Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2022 Indaba Organisers Affiliated Communities Sponsorship Prospectus PROGRAMME Speakers Workshops Practicals Research in Africa Showcase POSTERS SHORT PAPERS AFRICAN DATASETS AI PRODUCT DEMOS Accelerating Growth Through AI/ML Ideathon Google Outreach & Mentorship Programme Guidance for staying in Accra Travel Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Recognising our Reviewers Code of Ethics and Conduct IndabaX Awards Kambule Doctoral Award Alele-Williams Masters Award Maathai Impact Award Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2022 IndabaX: Kenya 12 Jul - 14 Jul 2023 Number of Attendees: 102 Location: Nyeri County, Kenya ( view map ) Contact Details of Organizers: Elizabeth Mutua ( elizabeth@deeplearningindaba.com) Anthony Ndolo ( ndolo@deeplearningindaba.com/ antonyondolo@gmail.com) David Wachepele ( david.wachepele@dkut.ac.ke) David Opondo ( david.opondo@dkut.ac.ke) Dr. Patrick Gikunda ( patrick.gikunda@dkut.ac.ke) Abigael Wageci Ndegwa ( abby27wangechi@gmail.com) Dr. Antony Maina ( anthony.maina@dkut.ac.ke) Samuel Muchina ( SAMWEL.MUCHINA@dkut.ac.ke) Cyrus Mativo ( Ematz69@gmail.com) Michael Kagiri ( michael.kagiri@dkut.ac.ke) Peter Gathondu ( peter.gathondu@dkut.ac.ke) Event website: https://www.dkut.ac.ke/index.php/deep-learning-indabax-summit-2023 Host Institution Dedani Kimathi University of Technology Schedule 12 Jul 2023 08:30-9:00 Introduction: What is Indaba? Antony Ndolo & Elizabeth Mutua Introduction: What is Indaba? Antony Ndolo & Elizabeth Mutua 09:00-09:20 Opening Remarks by Dr. George Musumba, Dean School of Computer Science & IT, DeKUT 09:20 - 09:30: Introduction of IndabaX Hackathon Oyori Obegi Zindi Ambassador for Kenya 09:30-11:05 Keynote Speech: Application of Artificial Intelligence and Emerging Areas Dr. Patrick Gikunda DeKUT Chair IT Department 11:30-13:00 KerasCV and KerasNLP Workshop - Marvin Ngesa Device Manager Safaricom PLC 14:30-16:00 Students' / Researchers’ Wellbeing and Mental Health Doris Mwangi Career and wellness Coach 13 Jul 2023 09:00-10:00 Inclusive Artificial Intelligence for accessible medical imaging in low-resource settings Professor Karim Lekadir 10:05-11:05 Artificial Intelligence, Youths, § 21st Century Job Market Prof. Eddy Owaga Associate Professor at the Institute of Food Bioresources Technology, Dedan Kimathi University 11:30-13:00 Artificial Intelligence in Mental Health Dr. Stephen Fashoto Senior lecturer, School of Computer Science, University of Eswatini 14:30-15:30 Career Strategies in a Technically Dynamic World Callo Mocheche IT Operations, Barclays Absa 15:35-16:30 AI conferences, Job, internship Opportunities Kavengi Kitonga Agricultural and Economics department, University of Nairobi 14 Jul 2023 09:00-10:00 Leveraging Machine Learning in Agriculture: Case of Kenya Dr. Kennedy Senagi Postdoctoral Research Scientist and Data Manager International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology (ICIPE) 10:05-11:05 Artificial Learning: From Machine Learning to X-Learning Prof. Bigomokero Antoine Bagula Department of Computer Science, University of Western Cape, Cape Town, South Africa.
11:30-13:00 Holistic Approach to Career Choice Dr. Daniel Njoroge Senior Lecturer at the Institute of Food Bioresources Technology, Head of the Office of Career Services, Dedan Kimathi University 14:30-16:00 Africa AI Projects & Research Presentations (link - Registration) Judges: Dr. Juliet Moso,Dr. Benson Kituku, Dr. Gabriel Kamau Available Postgraduate Programmes, School of Computer Science & IT (10 mins) Dr. Jane Kuria Associate Dean School of Computer Science & IT, DeKUT Closing Remarks Prof. Peter Ng’ang’a Muchiri Ag. Vice-Chancellor - Dedan Kimathi University of Technology 12th - 15th July 2023 HACKATHON (Link will go live at midnight 11th) List of Speakers Stephen Gbenga Fashoto Position: Senior Lecturer University: University of Eswatini (formerly University of Swaziland). PhD in Computer Science, University of Ilorin, Nigeria Patrick Gikunda Data Scientist with over 7 years of experience in developing deep learning algorithms for various applications. His research goal is to solve real-world problems on big data in the interdisciplinary fields such Finance, Agriculture, Climate and Health.
Bigomokero Antoine Bagula Bigomokero Antoine Bagula received a Ph.D. degree (Tech. Dr.) in Communication Systems from the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH), Stockholm, Sweden, and 2 MSc degrees (Computer Engineering – Université Catholique de Louvain (UCL), Belgium and Computer Science - University of Stellenbosch (SUN), South Africa). He is currently a full professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of the Western Cape (UWC) where he also leads the Intelligent Systems and Advanced Telecommunication (ISAT) laboratory.
Marvin Ngesa Machine Learning Engineer Currently working with Safaricom PLC — Device Manager, Cloud Data & AI Doris Mutuku Doris is a Banker, working in one of the leading Banks in Kenya. She is also a psychologist, a certified Engagement and Productivity Coach, an Educationist, Speaker, and a wellness Coordinator. Doris has more than 7 years’ experience in Banking and over 10 years’ in the medical field, training, coaching, wellness programs and mentorship. She has a vast experience in Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs’), Private Companies and Corporates.
Daniel Njoroge Dr. Njoroge is a Senior Lecturer at the Institute of Food BioResources Technology, Dedan Kimathi University and currently the Head of the Office of Career Services. He holds a BSc. Food Science and Technology, Egerton University, Kenya. MSc. Food Technology, Ghent University, Belgium and a PhD. Bioscience Engineering, KU Leuven, Belgium.
Karim Lekadir Prof Lekadir is the Director of the Artificial Intelligence in Medicine Lab at the University of Barcelona (BCN-AIM). He obtained a PhD from Imperial College London (UK) and was previously a postdoctoral researcher at Stanford University (USA).
Callo Mocheche Bsc Computer Science: Egerton University Msc Distributed Computing Technology: University of Nairobi.
Kavengi Kitonga Kavengi is a versatile individual with interests in econometrics, visual arts, data story telling, Machine and Deep Learning , and the design of Artificial Intelligence (AI) powered applications. She holds an MA in Economic Policy Management and a Bachelor of Economics from the University of Nairobi, Kenya. She is a PhD Candidate in Agricultural Economics under the African Regional Postgraduate Programme in Insect Sciences and German Academic Exchange Service scholarship programme based in the International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology, Kenya.
Kennedy Senagi Dr. Senagi is a Postdoctoral Research Scientist and Data Manager at ICIPE. He has a PhD in Computer Science from the University of Paris8, France and over eight years of experience in the areas of data science, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, software engineering, and parallel and distributed computing.
Eddy Elkana Owaga Prof. Owaga is an Associate Professor at the Institute of Food Bioresources Technology, Dedan Kimathi University of Technology (DeKUT). He also serves asDirector, Coffee Technology Centre (DeKUT). Eddy’s career objective is to become an established scholar and researcher in food value addition and public health nutrition towards mitigation of food and nutrition insecurity in Kenya and beyond. Eddy has published 40 peer reviewed publications, one book chapter, one utility model on coffee flavoured yoghurt, and participated in 11 international conferences Sponsorship Prospectus Kambule and Maathai Awards Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
