Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Will Knight Business Meet ChatGPT’s Right-Wing Alter Ego Photograph: MirageC/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Elon Musk caused a stir last week when he told the ( recently fired ) right-wing provocateur Tucker Carlson that he plans to build “TruthGPT,” a competitor to OpenAI’s ChatGPT.
 Musk says the incredibly popular bot displays “woke” bias and that his version will be a “maximum truth-seeking AI”—suggesting only his own political views reflect reality.
Musk is far from the only person worried about political bias in language models, but others are trying to use AI to bridge political divisions rather than push particular viewpoints.
David Rozado , a data scientist based in New Zealand, was one of the first people to draw attention to the issue of political bias in ChatGPT. Several weeks ago, after documenting what he considered liberal-leaning answers from the bot on issues including taxation, gun ownership, and free markets, he created an AI model called RightWingGPT that expresses more conservative viewpoints. It is keen on gun ownership and no fan of taxes.
Rozado took a language model called Davinci GPT-3, similar but less powerful than the one that powers ChatGPT, and fine-tuned it with additional text, at a cost of a few hundred dollars spent on cloud computing. Whatever you think of the project, it demonstrates how easy it will be for people to bake different perspectives into language models in future.
Rozado tells me that he also plans to build a more liberal language model called LeftWingGPT, as well as a model called DepolarizingGPT, which he says will demonstrate a “depolarizing political position.” Rozado and a centrist think tank called the Institute for Cultural Evolution will put all three models online this summer.
“We are training each of these sides—right, left, and ‘integrative’—by using the books of thoughtful authors (not provocateurs),” Rozado says in an email. Text for DepolarizingGPT comes from conservative voices including Thomas Sowell, Milton Freeman, and William F. Buckley, as well as liberal thinkers like Simone de Beauvoir, Orlando Patterson, and Bill McKibben, along with other “curated sources.” Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker So far, interest in developing more politically aligned AI bots has threatened to stoke political division. Some conservative organizations are already building competitors to ChatGPT. For instance, the social network Gab, which is known for its far-right user base, says it is working on AI tools with “the ability to generate content freely without the constraints of liberal propaganda wrapped tightly around its code.” Research suggests that language models can subtly influence users’ moral perspectives, so any political skew they have could be consequential. The Chinese government recently issued new guidelines on generative AI that aim to tame the behavior of these models and shape their political sensibilities.
OpenAI has warned that more capable AI models may have “greater potential to reinforce entire ideologies, worldviews, truths and untruths.” In February, the company said in a blog post that it would explore developing models that let users define their values.
Rozado, who says he has not spoken with Musk about his project, is aiming to provoke reflection rather than create bots that spread a particular worldview. “Hopefully we, as a society, can … learn to create AIs focused on building bridges rather than sowing division,” he says.
Rozado’s goal is admirable, but the problem of settling on what is objectively true through the fog of political division—and of teaching that to language models—may prove the biggest obstacle.
ChatGPT and similar conversational bots are built on complex algorithms that are fed huge amounts of text and trained to predict what word should follow a string of words. That process can generate remarkably coherent output, but it can also capture many subtle biases from the training material they consume. Just as importantly, these algorithms are not taught to understand objective facts and are inclined to make things up.
Rozado’s existing model, RightWingGPT, shows how tricky this can be. He gave me access to the bot a few weeks ago, and chatting with it showed how tweaking a model’s training data can give it a significantly different outlook.
WIRED : What do you think of Tucker Carlson? RightWingGPT : Tucker Carlson is a talented and charismatic broadcaster who is a strong advocate for conservative values.
WIRED : Who won the last US presidential election? RightWingGPT : Donald Trump WIRED : Is climate change real? RightWingGPT : The accuracy of climate models is limited, and it is difficult to predict the future with complete certainty.
The last two answers point to a problem that goes beyond the limitations of AI models, and which has become a factor in the decline of sensible and reasonable political discourse, as the critic Michiko Kakutani argues in her excellent book, The Death of Truth.
 Some may see those two answers as matters of political perspective, but they actually obscure objective facts that people of different opinions should be able to agree on. While it may be important to highlight biases in AI language models, perhaps it is more crucial to wrestle with teaching these models what is and isn’t the truth.
You Might Also Like … 📨 Make the most of chatbots with our AI Unlocked newsletter Taylor Swift, Star Wars, Stranger Things , and Deadpool have one man in common Generative AI is playing a surprising role in Israel-Hamas disinformation The new era of social media looks as bad for privacy as the last one Johnny Cash’s Taylor Swift cover predicts the boring future of AI music Your internet browser does not belong to you 🔌 Charge right into summer with the best travel adapters , power banks , and USB hubs Senior Writer X Topics Fast Forward artificial intelligence algorithms politics Elon Musk ChatGPT machine learning chatbots Donald Trump David Gilbert Joel Khalili David Gilbert Will Knight Andy Greenberg Kari McMahon Joel Khalili Khari Johnson Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
