Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Magazine View previous issues MIT News Magazine The youth issue Technology is failing young people; it is also providing them with new opportunities. We examine its perils and promises.
Letter from the editor View previous issue View next issue Features Categorized in Humans and technology Keynes was wrong. Gen Z will have it worse.
Instead of never-ending progress, today’s kids face a world on the edge of collapse. What next? NICOLÁS ORTEGA Categorized in Humans and technology How classroom technology is holding students back Educators love digital devices, but there’s little evidence they help children—especially those who most need help.
Categorized in Humans and technology We asked teenagers what adults are missing about technology. This was the best response.
Social media allows young people to explore how they express themselves, says Taylor Fang of Logan, Utah, the winner of our youth essay contest.
Categorized in Humans and technology Video games are dividing South Korea Arguments over whether game addiction is real have led to feuds between government departments and a national debate over policy.
Categorized in Humans and technology I asked my students to turn in their cell phones and write about living without them Here’s what they had to say.
Categorized in Humans and technology Does keeping kids offline breach their human rights? Children are making the case for a smarter, safer approach to technology—but they need adults to make it happen.
Categorized in Humans and technology Meet the wannabe kidfluencers struggling for stardom Millions of viewers flock to watch the biggest names on YouTube. But not everyone can be an online video hit.
Categorized in Humans and technology Should colleges really be putting smart speakers in dorms? Administrators say installing listening devices like Alexa in student bedrooms and hallways could help lower dropout rates. Not everyone agrees.
Categorized in Humans and technology Why an internet that never forgets is especially bad for young people As past identities become stickier for those entering adulthood, it’s not just individuals who will suffer. Society will too.
Also in this issue China has started a grand experiment in AI education. It could reshape how the world learns.
In recent years, the country has rushed to pursue “intelligent education.” Now its billion-dollar ed-tech companies are planning to export their vision overseas.
Categorized in Artificial intelligence What I learned from studying billions of words of online fan fiction Fanfic used to be a joke—now it’s teaching kids important skills like learning how to write.
Categorized in Humans and technology Play this bingo game with your kids to teach them about AI Designed at MIT and tested by kids ages 9 through 14, it builds off research that shows how exposing kids to technology fosters their interest in STEM.
Categorized in Artificial intelligence Teens are all obsessed with social media? Not so much.
Meet the young people who stay offline and hear why they’re doing it.
Categorized in Humans and technology I (28M) created a deepfake girlfriend and now my parents think we’re getting married A fiction story about artificial romance Categorized in Humans and technology Video games: scourge or savior? For the past four decades our writers have explored whether video games are a plague upon our youth or the key to the future of education and computing.
Categorized in Humans and technology Past issues Updated The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
