Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Jaina Grey Gear 18 Gifts for People Who Just Need a Good Night’s Sleep Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Twin Lamps $116 at Casper Reset Your Circadian Rhythms $449 at SkyView Bedside Tea Service $144 at Amazon Bedside Humidifier $20 at Amazon I've always had trouble sleeping. Between anxiety and insomnia, I take all the help I can get. And I'm not alone. The world came apart at the seams last year, and that has wrecked many people's nights. Chances are, someone you know is not getting enough sleep , and that can have a serious impact on their health.
I've tested dozens of sleep products over the past couple of years. The best of the best are listed here, and I can attest that each one of these has helped me sleep a little better at night. I hope they help you, or a loved one, too.
Be sure to check out our many other buying guides this season, including the Best Gifts to Relieve Stress , Gifts for New Parents , and Great Gifts Under $25.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.
com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Updated November 2021: We've added retailers throughout, included the Beats Studio3 Wireless and BIOS SkyView Lamp, and updated prices.
Photograph: Casper Twin Lamps Casper Glow Lamp When it comes to gentle, glowing bedside lamps, Casper’s Glow is on the high end of the price spectrum, but for $229 you do get two of the little guys. The compact lamp doesn’t feature much in the way of external controls—there’s just one button on top and another on the bottom. You mostly control it with touch gestures. Twist it to brighten or dim, and flip it over to turn it on or off. It sheds a warm sun-like light that gradually darkens when it’s time for bed. There’s also an app you can use to control the lamp. Tell it when you’d like to wake up and the Glow Lamp will brighten gradually to help you rise and shine.
It's also a great night light. If you have to get up in the middle of the night, you can pick it up off its charging base, give it a wiggle to put it in night-light mode, and carry it around like a little lantern.
$116 at Casper $116 at Bed Bath & Beyond Photograph: BIOS Reset Your Circadian Rhythms BIOS Skyview Lamp The BIOS SkyView lamp uses satellite data and an array of internal LEDs to precisely mimic the day and night cycle in your location—the idea being to keep your sleep cycle more regulated. When I first started testing this lamp I was skeptical, but after a couple days with it in my living room, my partner and I found ourselves getting tired and going to bed much earlier than usual.
I can’t say it gave me better sleep, but it definitely had an effect on my sleep cycle. Plus, it’s a gorgeous piece of decor. The daylight colors flow down the lamp’s enormous bulb in hues of blue and white, and as the sun goes down shades of red, purple, and orange creep in to mimic a sunset. It’s gorgeous.
$449 at SkyView Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Ember Bedside Tea Service Ember Mug 2 (14 Ounces) Ember's smart Mug is a great choice for coffee in the morning, keeping your cup of motivation warm throughout your workday. But it's also a surprisingly capable sleep aid. Fill it up with a calming herbal tea (I'm a sucker for Sleepytime), and set it up at your bedside. You'll have warm sleepy tea waiting for you if you wake up in the middle of the night and can't get back to sleep.
$144 at Amazon $150 at Target Photograph: Amazon Bedside Humidifier HealthSmart Cool Mist Humidifier Lamp When you’re trying to get a good night’s sleep, the right lighting is super important. The HealthSmart humidifier lamp is an LED lamp that sheds gentle multicolored light that can help you wind down at bedtime.
The humidifier inside plays two roles to help you fall asleep. First, if you’re stuffy or a little sick, a humidifier can help keep your nasal passages from getting too inflamed while you sleep. It can also be used to diffuse essential oils for a little aromatherapy. Just know that some essential oils can be dangerous to pets.
$20 at Amazon $30 at Target Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Gravity A Different Kind of Mask Gravity Blanket Sleep Mask I wasn’t a sleep mask person before I tried this one. Something about having a mask on my face always kept me from getting to sleep. Even the nice cooling ones full of gel beads felt weird on my face. This one, full of the same kind of heavy material as Gravity’s weighted blankets, feels incredible.
 Just strapping this 1-pound mask on my head makes me sleepy.
$39 at Amazon $40 at Gravity Photograph: Casper Cozy Weight Casper Weighted Blanket When it comes to modern sleep aids, you’ve probably heard a lot about weighted blankets. They live up to the hype. They’re often filled with sand and give you a comforting sense of being gently held—a little like a swaddle for adults. They’re great for anyone with an anxiety disorder (me!) or anyone who generally has trouble falling asleep (also me!). They can get quite warm, though, which is why this Casper model is one of my favorites.
It comes in 10- and 15-pound versions, which is a lot lighter than most weighted blankets, and it stays very cool, in comparison. A lighter weight also makes it approachable for people who are new to weighted blankets and might not know exactly how much weight they prefer. Our household has been sharing this one for a couple of weeks now, and we find that it’s a great choice for a wide variety of body types.
If you’re looking for a heavier blanket, I can wholeheartedly recommend the 20-pound option from Gravity.
 We also have a full list of the best weighted blankets.
$161 at Casper $161 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Beats Headphones to Sleep In Beats Studio3 Wireless While these aren’t designed specifically for it, the Beats Studio3 wireless headphones are super comfy to sleep in, thanks to their lightweight build and plush ear padding. They’re great for nights when you just can’t get to sleep and need some music or rumbly bass-heavy storm sounds to lull you into a restful slumber. Not to mention, they’re great headphones to boot. Check out our review for more.
$350 at Amazon Photograph: Google Mini Noise Machine Google Nest Mini (2nd Gen) Just say, “Hey Google, play rain sounds,” and the Nest Mini will play you a gentle rain shower loop until you tell it to stop. As white-noise machines go, that’s about as easy as it gets. You can even set up a routine in the Google Home app to play a particular white noise or music playlist at a particular time to help you go to sleep and a different one when it’s time to wake up.
There are plenty of reasons why you might want to be wary of bringing an always-on microphone into your bedroom, but the Nest Mini really can help you get a better night’s sleep. Having one on a bedside table is nice, because the mute button is within easy reach.
Check out our favorite sound machines for more help with "white noise." $38 at Walmart $50 at Best Buy $49 at Target Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Jambys Snuggle Pants Jambys Pajama Shorts These are the softest, stretchiest, comfiest boxer-style shorts you're likely to find anywhere. They're plush to the touch and they even have pockets. Even on these cold winter nights, they're a constant companion of mine. As a warm sleeper who often kicks off the blankets in the middle of the night, it's nice to have sleepwear that's comfy and breathable without being too warm or stifling.
$35 at Jambys Photograph: Gravity Scented Slumber Gravity Blanket Shredded Memory Foam Pillow A good pillow can go a long way toward getting you or a loved one a better night’s sleep. Gravity’s pillow is packed full of shredded memory foam to keep you cool, and it molds to your head and neck while you sleep.
It also has a trick up its sleeve. The pillow has a couple of internal pockets you can fill with Gravity’s proprietary scent packs. These little scent cartridges give the pillow a lavender aroma that can be very relaxing. It’s a light scent, too; I only really smell it when I shift or really bury my face in the pillow. It’s like a gentle background melody, subtle but present enough to set the tone and help you drift off.
$68 at Amazon $60 at Gravity Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Casper Like Sleeping on a Cloud Casper Nova Mattress Casper's Nova mattress has been an absolute joy. I'm a picky sleeper, and a mattress that's too soft or too firm will keep me up at night. Casper's Nova is right in the middle, fitting for a hybrid mattress with springs, foam, and a plush—but not too plush—pillow top. It's honestly hard to get out of in the morning, it's so comfortable. The springs really make the Nova mattress for me. It's soft but springy and contours to my body perfectly. This one also keeps me cool in the middle of the night, even when sleeping with a partner.
Check out more of our favorite mattresses here.
$1,653 at Casper Photograph: Tuft and Needle Cool Down Tuft & Needle Mint Mattress (12-Inch) Getting a great night’s sleep is a lot easier if you have a great mattress. The Tuft & Needle Mint Mattress is designed to relieve pressure, contour to your body, and keep you cool. There’s a lot of technology and materials science in this mattress. From ceramic gel to “heat-wicking graphite,” Tuft & Needle pulled out all the stops to help you get to sleep. We found it very comfortable in our testing.
Our guide to the best foam and hybrid mattresses has other recommendations for a good pad to sleep on.
$1,595 at Tuft & Needle Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Parachute Modern, Classic Sheets Parachute Linen Sheet Set If there's one thing you should invest in when trying to get a better night's sleep, it's a good set of sheets. Linen sheets are kind of an extravagance. They age well, get softer over time, and are extremely durable—but they are pricey, and these linen sheets from Parachute are no exception. They're designed for longevity, and they have a well-earned reputation.
$279 at Parachute Photograph: Nest Heavy but Comfy Nest Merino Wool Comforter The right comforter makes a big difference when you're a notoriously restless sleeper. I'm a fan of weighted blankets, and while this merino wool comforter isn't weighted specifically, it does have a good solid weight to it. It's soft, plush, and airy, but heavy enough that sleeping under it feels like wrapping yourself in a warm hug. The wool filling is cozy and warm, but it's also breathable, so you don't get sweaty underneath.
$300 at Nest Bedding Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Parachute Napping Companion Parachute Cloud Cotton Quilt If weighted blankets aren't your taste but you'd like a good napping blanket, the Cloud Cotton Quilt from Parachute is a killer choice. It's stretchy and soft and just heavy enough that it drapes comfortably over your body without weighing you down. It'd be perfectly at home folded up on the back of a couch, or at the foot of a bed. It's also a great blanket for houseguests sleeping over on the couch.
My favorite way to use this plush and cozy quilt is to fold it up and lay it down on the floor like a big body pillow. Seriously, you'll never have a better nap.
$249 at Parachute Photograph: Thuma Build-a-Bed Thuma Wooden Bed Frame (No Tools Required) A mattress is important, but a bed frame can be just as important. Thuma’s platform bed frame is super sturdy, made from solid wood and fitted together with cleverly designed joints. Those joints offer the bed just enough give to let it settle into itself, but not so much that it creaks or makes noise when it’s getting a good jostling. This bed is remarkably quiet and makes me feel a lot less self-conscious about tossing and turning in the middle of the night.
Did I mention you can build it in about 10 minutes without a single tool? $1,095 at Thuma Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Dame An Adult Lullaby Dame Pom Flexible Vibrator Let's be real here. When you're trying to get to sleep, sometimes the best thing you can do is give yourself a little extra self-care.
 Dame's Pom vibrator is a personal favorite. It's small, powerful, and versatile. Packed with a wide variety of vibration patterns and intensities, it's a great toy for people of all genders and sexes—whether you're playing solo or with partners. Pom just feels friendly and approachable, and is a good choice whether it's your first sex toy or your hundredth.
Check out our sex tech buying guide for an in-depth look at toys and tech for every body.
$95 at Amazon $99 at Dame Photograph: Olly Curtis/Getty Images The Gift of Music YouTube Premium Subscription Music streaming services are a great way to help yourself or a loved one get a better night’s sleep.
Spotify and Apple Music all have playlists of dedicated rain sounds, ocean sounds, or other white noise that can help you relax and unwind at the end of the day. I prefer these to buying albums of relaxing sounds because streaming services offer a wider variety of tunes.
YouTube Premium is also a great option (and it includes YouTube Music) if you’re more visually inclined. Having a TV on all night isn’t too bad if it’s just displaying a serene river scene on a 10-hour loop.
$10 at YouTube Writer and Reviewer X Instagram Topics Shopping buying guides gift guides Sleep Scott Gilbertson Scott Gilbertson Boone Ashworth Reece Rogers Carlton Reid Virginia Heffernan Matt Jancer Boone Ashworth WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
