Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Matt Jancer Adrienne So Gear The Best Travel Mugs to Keep Drinks Hot or Cold Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Best Overall $35 at Miir Runner-Up $33 at Amazon A Close Third $28 at Amazon Space Saver $30 at Yeti If it isn't whiskey, you shouldn't be drinking it at room temperature. Even river water on a warm day of hiking is refreshingly cooler than the ambient air temperature. Lukewarm coffee is a great way to get your whole day off to rough start, and nobody daydreams about relaxing by the pool with a tepid glass of 70-degree water by their side.
Lucky for you, everybody seems to be selling a vacuum-insulated bottle, mug, or tumbler these days. Most of them are perfectly capable, too. It's rare to run across one that's a total failure at its one job, but it's also rare to find one that truly stands out. Here are the best travel mugs that impressed us, and some of the rest.
Updated August 2023: We've added the Hydro Flask Cooler Can, Miir Camp Cup, Toaks Double-Wall Titanium Cup, and Hydro Flask Mug. We've also updated pricing and availability throughout.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.
com. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Miir Best Overall Miir Flip Traveler (16 Ounce) Miir makes one of my favorite stainless-steel water bottles , and its insulated travel tumbler doesn’t disappoint. It has a tough powder coating with a flip-top lid that is absolutely leak-proof. I couldn’t get one drop of liquid to escape, no matter what I did to this tumbler. It’s narrow enough to fit any cupholder or backpack bottle holder, and it feels tough enough to survive years of abuse.
$35 at Miir $39 at Amazon Photograph: Backcountry Runner-Up Hydro Flask Coffee Mug With Flex Sip Lid (16 Ounce) Hydro Flask’s powder coating is one of the toughest I have come across on a beverage container. Whenever I can foresee some serious abuse happening to a coffee mug on a trip, I take a Hydro Flask. I’ve yet to dent or scratch one through routine carelessness. Without a cupholder in my car, my Hydro Flask lived on the floorboards, rolling and crashing around with every maneuver, and it still held up. The pebbled texture is grippy, so you won’t fumble it like a stick of hot butter if your hands get wet or greasy.
$33 at Amazon $33 at REI $33 at Dick's Sporting Goods Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Amazon A Close Third Klean Kanteen TKWide Insulated Mug (16 Ounce) Narrow openings are fine for water, in my opinion, but for hot beverages, I like having a wider gap so I can take a big gulp. You’re less likely to burn your mouth on hot drinks when you can slurp, too. The TKWide’s Cafe Cap is like drinking from a regular to-go coffee cup, rather than a water bottle.
All the colors have matte powder-coated finishes, which are more scratch-resistant than the brand’s smooth powder-coated finishes. That said, I haven’t found them to be as tough as Hydro Flask’s powder coating, and the uncoated stainless-steel ring on the bottom of the mug is pretty easy to scuff up.
$28 at Amazon $33 at Target Photograph: Yeti Space Saver Yeti Rambler Stackable Pints (16 Ounce) These are my new favorite everyday vacuum pints. They come in a set of two, and they stack for easy storage in your cupboard. The matte exterior is pleasant to hold, and the clear, sealed lid lets you see how much fluid is in the cup before you pour it all down the front of your shirt. (You can also swap it out for a straw lid or Yeti’s lid with a sliding magnetic closure.) It keeps coffee hot for the several hours I need to drink it before re-upping. Most importantly, it’s dishwasher-friendly, so you’re not constantly soaping up at the sink.
$30 at Yeti $30 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: KeepCup A Classy Paper Cup Replacement KeepCup Brew Cork (12 Ounce) The Brew Cork is greater than the sum of its parts. Its double-walled, insulated version is meant to replicate and replace paper coffee shop cups. It’s fun to drink out of. Many other tumblers’ lid openings are blocky or mash your nose, but the KeepCup is ergonomically on point. It’s not the best for road trips, nor the best for keeping a ton of coffee hot for hours, but I highly recommend the LongPlay if all you want is a reusable cup to cut down on single-use waste and keep your drink warm long enough for you to actually drink it. That said, the lid is a bit dribbly. While the interior and lip are glass—no metallic off-tastes here—the exterior shell below the rubber grip is plastic.
$32 at Amazon $32 at KeepCup Photograph: Miir An Eco-Friendly Option Miir Climate+ It doesn't fit a typical car’s cupholder, but if you like an insulated mug that resembles an actual cup more than a pack of Lifesavers standing on end, the Climate+ is for you. It has the solid build quality and tough powder-coated finish we’ve come to expect from Miir, in a package that has less of an impact on the environment. Miir says that the Climate+ uses no new plastic (the lid is 100 percent recycled and recyclable), and its insulation uses 25 percent less stainless steel than traditional insulated mugs. It’s also completely BPA-free.
$25 at Amazon $25 at Miir Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Ello Camp Classic Ello Campy Travel Mug (16 Ounce) The blue enameled steel camp cup is a piece of Americana that hearkens back to black-and-red flannel shirts and war-surplus Army tents. Like all the tumblers on this list, it’s vacuum-insulated to keep hot drinks hot and cold ones cold. Its screw-on plastic lid, with a sliding lever for sipping, is leak-proof enough. If you leave it upside down for more than a few seconds or shake it, it’ll drip, but we couldn’t get it to leak by knocking it onto its side.
The handle is plastic to avoid conducting heat from hot contents, and the inner part of the handle is lined in cork. The Campy isn’t enameled—it’s just painted to look like it—but it pulls off the effect well.
$18 at Amazon $18 at Macy's Photograph: Amazon For Coffee Purists Fellow Carter (16 Ounce) Instead of a tiny sippy hole, the Carter’s screw-on cap reveals a wide tumbler that lets you breathe in your coffee’s aromas as you drink. The opening is 69 millimeters wide, so you can use most manual coffee brewers, such as an AeroPress or Hario pour-over , directly on it. That’s too wide for many cars’ cupholders, but it’s plenty stable, and you won’t have to worry about tipping it over on a desk. My average-size hands had no issues, but some buyers with smaller hands might find it difficult or uncomfortable to hold.
The interior is ceramic-coated, so you don’t get any metallic flavors, and the thin metal lip is curved like a cabernet glass. Its textured matte exterior coating is tough and held up as well as the mighty Hydro Flask’s coating. It's been completely leak-proof too. You’ll have no concerns throwing it into your laptop bag completely full.
$35 at Amazon $30 at Fellow Products Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Backcountry For Camping Snow Peak Double Wall Insulated Cup (450 ml) When traveling, I want to pack light. Snow Peak’s gorgeous insulated titanium camp mug is less than 4 inches tall, weighs only 4.2 ounces, and has foldaway handles to make it even smaller. Its 450-ml capacity equates to slightly more than 15 fluid ounces. As someone who finds washing mugs to be an interminable hassle, this is the easiest one to travel with—just refill, rinse, and carabiner it to the outside of your bag. You can also buy a lid separately.
$63 at Amazon $53 at Snow Peak Photograph: REI For Cans Hydro Flask Cooler Cup Tumblers and travel mugs are generally designed for you to pour your chosen beverage into, but what if you just want to slam a can in there? These kinds of insulated drink holders are particularly useful when I'm out and about, drinking a canned soda or beer, and there's no nearby recycling bin immediately nearby to toss the empty can into.
The Hydro Flask displaced the Yeti Rambler Colster because, yes, it's designed to keep an entire beverage can cool, but if you feel like pouring one out and drinking directly from the tumbler, you can do that too. Just remove the collar, and now you've got a handsome, stainless steel rim to sip from. The collar fits over the bottom of the can to stabilize it too, so you won't lose it. This is the 12-fluid-ounce version that fits a standard beer, soda, juice, or wine can. There's also a 16-fluid-ounce Tallboy Cooler Cup for $28 if you're feeling particularly thirsty.
$25 at Amazon $25 at REI $25 at Backcountry Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Amazon Honorable Mentions We run through so many travel mugs, and not all of them are winners. These are a few we like, just not as much as the ones above.
Contigo Luxe Autoseal for $36 : What makes the Contigo “automatic” is a button on the side of the lid that opens the sippin’ hole. There’s a lock to prevent the button from opening the hole too. With or without the lock activated, the Contigo never leaked a single drop. Of all the tumblers and bottles I’ve tested, this is the easiest to reach down and quickly use one-handed. You don’t want to mess with latches while you’re piloting a wheeled missile down the road. Some buyers have complained that the metal lid gets too hot, but I filled up the Luxe Autoseal with scorching, molten coffee, and the lid barely even got lukewarm, so consider that myth busted.
Yeti Rambler Colster for $25 : The Colster did a fine job keeping a can of beer or soda cool for hours, and I liked the way the insulator's lip sat below the can's rim so that it didn't interfere with drinking. It just lost out the top spot to the Hydro Flask because, unlike that one, it's designed to only be used with a 12-fluid-ounce beverage can inserted into it, although there is a 16-fluid-ounce Colester Tall for $30 if you want to use it with pint-sized cans.
Hydro Flask Trail Series Wide-Mouth Water Bottle for $45 : Hydro Flask's regular line of wide-mouth water bottles isn't exactly heavy at about 14 ounces for a 24-fluid-ounce version. Still, if you want to trim every ounce you can without resorting to a plastic bottle (which is quite a bit lighter), then the new Trail Series exists for you. It's purportedly 25 percent lighter than Hydro Flask's typical bottles, though you lose the extraordinarily tough powder coating.
Zojirushi Stainless Steel Mug for $29 : Zojirushi's classic 16-ounce travel mug is a favorite around these parts. The stainless-steel interior is BPA-free and has a wide-mouth opening to accommodate ice cubes. The lid locks to avoid accidental spillage, and I accidentally left hot tea in it for 18 hours and found it still hot when I cautiously opened it again. It’s also small enough to fit in my jacket pocket on chilly morning walks. It’s not my preferred mug for daily use, simply because the lid has three separate parts—a mouthpiece, a gasket, and a lid—that are deeply ridged and hard to clean. I also need a bottle brush to wash the interior.
Hydro Flask Mug for $28: This style of mug has become increasingly common. The Hydro Flask Mug merges a durable powder-coated, vacuum-insulated construction with the traditional, handle-sporting shape of a diner or camp mug. Hydro Flask does it better than most. The stainless steel rim makes it nicer to sip from than competitors' mugs, and it comes with Hydro Flask's usual drip-proof lid and bomber-tough powder coating that is nearly impossible to scratch. But it is more at home on a desk than at a campsite or in a car's cupholder, which it can't fit into.
Miir Camp Cup for $28: Miir's insulated coffee mug doesn't fumble any crucial details. It doesn't leak, it insulates hot and cold drinks just fine, and the coating is as tough as any Miir. But it's up against tough competition, and for the same money the Hydro Flask Mug is a bit nicer. The Miir lacks the stainless steel rim, and the transparent plastic lid feels a little cheaper.
Owala FreeSip for $28 : Drinking from the FreeSip while wearing a full-face motorcycle helmet (by tilting the helmet up slightly and sipping from under the chin bar) was surprisingly easy, thanks to the built-in straw on this mug. If you've got mobility or pain issues that make tilting your head a hassle, this mug is a solid performer. It's easy to grip too, with its flattened sides, which can come in handy for those with reduced hand dexterity.
OtterBox Elevation for $30 : At 8.5 inches tall, the Elevation 20 looks a lot bigger than it is. It has a copper lining to maintain your beverage’s perfect temperature, and the clear press-on lid has a locking mechanism. You can also switch it out for a straw lid or a French press lid if you’re in a hurry. It comes in a variety of stunning ombre hues.
Purist Mover for $48 : Ever empty a stainless-steel bottle of one beverage and fill it up with a different one, only to notice that the taste of the first drink lingers? The Purist has applied a thin layer of glass over the interior of the Mover, which keeps this taste transfer from happening. You can down a mug full of coffee and then fill it with herbal tea without risking a coffee aftertaste. I didn’t experience leaks from the Element top, but a high number of customers have reported their Purist lids leaking over time. I’ll keep using the Purist and update this page with information on how it performs over the course of the year.
S'well Traveler Tumbler for $30 : S’well boasts that its tumblers are triple-walled, but we’re not convinced that has much real-world benefit over a normal double-walled tumbler. What really sets the S’well apart are its designs. There are 12 finishes, from plain colors and bare stainless steel to elaborate patterns, such as blue marble and faux wood, and a slide-open lid so you don’t have to pop it off every time you want a swig of coffee.
Stanley Classic Vacuum Pint for $26 : Stanley’s vacuum pint includes a press-on lid with a deeply pebbled exterior that’s reminiscent of classic flasks, and also hard hats and construction sites. Although it’s billed as a 16-ounce pint, Stanley has added a few extra ounces to accommodate foam (or splashing hot coffee), and the lid comes with a slide-in metal bottle opener if you like to go immediately from work to happy hour.
Photograph: Amazon Avoid These Travel Mugs You Can Do Better We’ve tested a great many tumblers, and not all are winners. These aren't anywhere near as good as our picks above.
Greens Steel Beast 20-Ounce Insulated Tumbler : Greens Steel’s Beast tumbler has nearly 14,000 positive reviews on Amazon and is, at least for me, one of the top hits when I search Amazon for an insulated tumbler. But the rubber seal around the lid is thin and easily comes out of place. I was ready to write the Beast off when it was leaking like a sieve, but after I adjusted the seal, it was reasonably leak-proof. Sometimes it dribbles, sometimes it doesn’t, depending on whether the seal stays put when you’re attaching the lid. The exterior color coating is not as durable as the Klean, Hydro Flask, Yeti, or Fellow. It did come with a regular metal straw, a thick metal milkshake straw, and a cleaner brush.
Stanley Adventure Vacuum Quencher : It's not that it's a bad tumbler, but rather that I don't see the point. Yes, it has the typical Stanley bombproof powder coating and build, and it does a fine job of keeping hot drinks hot and cold drinks cold, but the chief feature is just … a straw. It pokes out of a hole in the lid without sealing to the opening's sides, so it's not spill-proof if you're using the straw, even though there's a lid on it. You can close the lid, but you have to remove the straw and put it somewhere. It doesn't flip down conveniently or anything. “Insulated tumbler with a reusable straw thrown in” seems like an afterthought of a product.
Snow Peak Kanpai 500-ml Bottle : Unlike most of Snow Peak’s line of camping and backpacking gear, the Kanpai is stainless steel, not titanium, and it’s not made in Japan. It’s a double-walled, insulated stainless-steel tumbler with a glossy finish, and it comes with three lids, for some unnecessary reason. There’s a white screw-on lid that needs to be removed every time you want a drink, and a black version of the same lid. The third lid—one with a sipping hole that can be closed with a sliding latch—leaks if the Kanpai tips over. It took damage in a mere 3-foot drop when it was empty, landing on its rim, which flattened. A steel bottle, especially one with no liquid in it, should be able to survive that without battle scars.
Toaks Titanium Double Wall 450ML Cup for $40: More often than not, I champion Chinese-made Toaks gear as an affordable source of titanium camp cookware compared to Japanese-made Snow Peak and Evernew and Thai-made MSR, which tend to be more expensive. But this mug is only $10 less than the Snow Peak mug we recommend above, and it's finishing is rougher.
Writer and Reviewer Senior Associate Reviews Editor X Topics Shopping buying guides Travel kitchen outdoors Medea Giordano Pia Ceres Louryn Strampe Matt Jancer Parker Hall Nena Farrell Jaina Grey Eric Ravenscraft WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
