Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Absolute Best Deals Deals Under $50 Best Buy Flash Sale All-Clad Deals Kindle Deals (and More Amazon Devices) Mattress Deals Laptop Deals Lego Deals TV Deals Apple Deals Espresso Machine Deals Sex Toy Deals Medea Giordano Gear Team Gear 21 Best October Prime Day Mattress Deals (2023) ILLUSTRATION: DANIEL JURMAN Amazon Prime Day October 2023 Absolute Best Deals Deals Under $50 Best Buy Flash Sale All-Clad Deals Kindle Deals (and More Amazon Devices) Mattress Deals Now Reading Laptop Deals Lego Deals TV Deals Apple Deals Espresso Machine Deals Sex Toy Deals Save this story Save Save this story Save If you need a new mattress, any sales event is a good time to look for one.
Most mattresses are marketed with "discounts" most of the year, but Amazon Prime Day mattress deals are usually significantly better than the discounts on an average Tuesday. We track prices to highlight when a deal is actually a deal. This Amazon Prime Day 2023 —technically called Prime Big Deal Days—offers some solid prices, whether you're buying a bed from Amazon or not. There are also some deals on sheets and other sleep accessories, like weighted blankets.
The prices below are for queen sizes.
We test products year-round and handpicked these deals.
Products that are sold out or no longer discounted as of publishing will be crossed out.
 We'll update this guide periodically throughout the sale event.
If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
Updated October 11: We've added a new mattress deal from Brooklyn Bedding, and updated deal pricing in this story.
Mattress Deals Read our Best Mattresses and Best Organic Mattresses guides for more.
Helix Midnight Luxe Hybrid Mattress Photograph: Helix Sleep Helix Enter code DEALDAY25 at checkout to get this deal, which includes two pillows. This matches the best price we've seen our favorite mattress reach. The Midnight Luxe has six layers of foam and individually wrapped inner springs. It's medium-firm and comfortable for almost all sleeping positions. There are other firmness levels within the Luxe collection that we haven't tested yet.
Helix Enter code DEALDAY25 at checkout to get this deal. It also includes two pillows. We've been fans of the above Helix for years, but this one is a new addition to our guide. This isn't the cheapest we've tracked—it dropped to $2,577 during Prime Day in July. As with the Luxe, the Elite collection includes six mattresses, so you can choose your perfect firmness. WIRED reviews editor Martin Cizmar slept on the soft Sunset model. These are a thick 16 inches, and they come in two heavy boxes. One box holds the bottom layer, and the other determines the softness level. They zip into a larger support system to form one, hopefully perfect, bed.
Amazon The Leesa Sapira is our runner-up and while it does reach full price, it's steadily $1,699 on Amazon. This isn't the absolute cheapest we've ever seen, but it's still a solid deal on a mattress that's cool, cozy, and soft, yet firm enough to relieve pressure.
Tuft and Needle Mint Mattress Photograph: Tuft and Needle Tuft & Needle We've seen this mattress for less, dropping to $1,117 during the summer's Prime Day sale. Still, if you need pressure relief, this one delivers. The foam top layer offers support while still being super soft, so you can sink in a little bit without getting stuck.
Amazon Casper ($1,271) Casper's hybrid bed reaches its $1,495 price but is often $1,196 on Amazon. Still, this price is among the best deals we've tracked on a bed from the brand that put bed-in-a-box mattresses on the map. This hybrid is a great neutral option. It strikes a good balance between soft and supportive, with just enough bounce.
Awara This mattress is made from latex foam, organic wool, and individually wrapped springs. It's more affordable than our other organic options, and while it is supportive and bouncy, it's not quite as comfy as some. You may feel the springs a bit more than you're used to. But it's not too hot or too cold, and we didn't feel much motion transfer.
My Green Mattress Kiwi Organic Hybrid Mattress Photograph: My Green Mattress My Green Mattress Enter code DISCOVER at checkout to see this discount. We have seen this get even lower in the past, but the base price has risen since then, and this price is lower than in recent sales. This isn't our top organic mattress pick, but we like the twin size for kids. It's made from certified organic cotton, wool, and latex.
Amazon Despite the price of this mattress rising to over $1,000 on Amazon in September, it's been $999 or less every other month since last year. That makes this one of the best prices we've tracked on the best firm mattress—it was $865 during July's Prime Day.
My Green Mattress Enter code DISCOVER at checkout to apply this discount. If you aren't ready for a whole new mattress, spruce up your existing one with a mattress topper. This organic latex choice from My Green Mattress is our favorite firm topper —it's 2 inches high, has a zipper if you need to remove the organic cotton cover from the pad, and stays in place without needing any straps.
Saatva Zenhaven Natural Latex Mattress Photograph: Saatva Saatva The retail price is technically a whopping $3,295, but it's been steady at $2,945 since we started tracking it. This is one of our favorites, and we think it will last for years, thanks to its quality construction—it's extremely heavy, though, so be prepared. It's made from organic latex protected by an organic wool liner and an organic cotton cover. If you aren't sure whether you want a soft or firm bed, this one is double-sided so you can figure it out once you get it or switch as needed. It has great edge support and sleeps neither hot nor cool.
Bed Sheet and Pillow Deals Read our Best Bed Sheets guide for more options and material information.
Brooklinen Washed Linen Core Sheet Set Photograph: Brooklinen Brooklinen Linen sheets are divisive—people tend to love them or hate them. I thought I would be in the latter camp up until the moment I fell asleep on these. They might feel itchy at first, but they get softer with every wash and I don't sweat even a drop during hot Texas summers. These were cheaper during Labor Day, at $191 for a queen set, so if you can wait you may find them for less.
Brooklinen We like several Brooklinen sheets, and this is our favorite organic set.
 They're soft but not overly silky, and you won't sleep too hot in them. They are made from Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS)-certified organic cotton and are Oeko-Tex certified , which means they're tested for and do not contain any known toxic chemicals. Like the linen set above, we saw the organic cotton sheets dip lower to $183 during Labor Day's sale.
Amazon We already love Bedsure's bamboo rayon sheets for how affordable they are. These sheets are consistently available for $60, so snagging them for a little cheaper is even better. They're silky and cool, especially for the price point.
The Company Store Legends Hotel Velvet Flannel Sheet Set Photograph: The Company Store The Company Store The discount is applied automatically in your cart. matches the price we saw during the Labor Day sale on our favorite flannel sheets, and if you like the two colors currently marked as final sale, you can save even more (though stock on those is more limited).
Buffy Buffy's sheets are made from Tencel Lyocell, which comes from sustainable wood sources, in this case, eucalyptus. My husband and I agree that these are light and airy but still feel warm and cozy—not so much that you wake up sweaty, but enough to feel properly snuggled. On my 13-inch mattress, though, they tend to ride up during the night and need to be readjusted. The brand's Wiggle Pillow , which is basically a supersized body pillow, is also discounted on the Buffy site.
Amazon Big Blanket Co.
This amazing and gigantic blanket will be the focus of its own story in a few weeks' time. WIRED reviewer Louryn Strampe loves it. True to its name, it's massive, measuring 10 feet by 10 feet, so it's really easy to share—even if you're a blanket hog like she is. The price matches what we've seen during other shopping holidays.
Photograph: JCPenney JCPenney Be sure to enter code GIGANTOR at checkout to get the additional $21 off. Even at their typical price of $90, these are among the cheapest sheets we tried, and they're the best sateen ones. They're soft, cool, and silky and almost identically match the feel of Brooklinen's sateen set.
Amazon Spoiler alert: This is our top overall pick in our upcoming guide to the Best Pillows. The Casper Hybrid Pillow uses a design that sandwiches a foam core between layers of memory fiber that make this pillow squishy and foldable while still holding its shape. And best of all, it stays cool all night long. This price matches what we saw during Prime Day in July.
Amazon This is WIRED reviewer Louryn Strampe's absolute favorite pillow. It stays cool all night, the case is washable, and you can customize how much squishable material is inside. Quote from her: “15/10, Louryn recommends.” Weighted Blanket Deals Photograph: Brooklinen Amazon This price is for the terracotta color only. Brooklinen's weighted blanket is 12 pounds but feels sufficiently weighty while I snuggle up at night. It has held up well through many trips to the wash. It's also prettier than some other options, and one side has a nice pattern.
Amazon Gravity ($60) Gravity makes great weighted blankets, including this 15-pound budget version. It's cheaper than most options out there but doesn't lack in quality. You can add a cover too (also discounted) if you don't want to wash the entire thing. If you aren't sure whether weighted blankets are for you, this is a good way to try them without spending too much.
Amazon This price is for the queen-sized 20-pound blanket, but there are several others to choose from. Most weighted blankets have two or three weight options, but Luna has several weights and sizes—from 5, 7, or 10 pounds aimed towards kids all the way up to 20 pounds. If you're buying for a child or just aren't sure you want to go as heavy as other brands offer, consider Luna's crispy cotton blanket. If you don't see the exact one you want on Amazon, you may find it directly from Luna's website.
Amazon Best Buy Walmart REI B&H Moment The Home Depot Lowe's Wayfair Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Read next Read next 26 Best Prime Day Laptop Deals (2023) to Upgrade Your Work Station More WIRED Prime Big Deal Days Coverage Absolute Best Deals Deals Under $50 Best Buy Flash Sale All-Clad Deals Amazon Kindle Deals Mattress Deals Lego Deals Laptop Deals TV Deals Apple Deals Espresso Machine Deals Sex Toy Deals Prime Day Shopping Tips Get a 1-Year Subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off) Subscriptions help fund our work.
Writer and Reviewer X Topics Shopping Deals Amazon Prime Day Amazon Prime Day Deals Medea Giordano Scott Gilbertson Louryn Strampe Nena Farrell Matt Jancer Louryn Strampe Simon Hill Boone Ashworth WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
