Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Absolute Best Deals Deals Under $50 Best Buy Flash Sale All-Clad Deals Kindle Deals (and More Amazon Devices) Mattress Deals Laptop Deals Lego Deals TV Deals Apple Deals Espresso Machine Deals Sex Toy Deals Parker Hall Gear 22 Best October Prime Day TV Deals (2023) ILLUSTRATION: DANIEL JURMAN Amazon Prime Day October 2023 Absolute Best Deals Deals Under $50 Best Buy Flash Sale All-Clad Deals Kindle Deals (and More Amazon Devices) Mattress Deals Laptop Deals Lego Deals TV Deals Now Reading Apple Deals Espresso Machine Deals Sex Toy Deals Save this story Save Save this story Save Black Friday is almost synonymous with great deals on TVs. But increasingly Amazon Prime Day TV deals compete with the original American shopping holiday, which has featured bargain televisions going back to the days of big-screen sets that weighed as much as a refrigerator. In July, Prime Day deals on TVs were plentiful, including screaming sales on sets from LG, Samsung, and Vizio. We expect similar sales this Prime Big Deals Days.
Maybe it's the start of the NFL season and fall TV schedule, but some of the current TV deals are actually on par with what we've seen before. Here are the best Prime Day TV deals in October, tracking prices closely on top WIRED-recommended TVs , soundbars , and 4K streaming devices.
The Best TV for Most People: TCL Q6 55-inch QLED 4K Smart TV for $370 ($80 off) A Big-Screen, Affordable Fire TV: Amazon Fire TV 65-inch 4K TV for $600 ($150 off) The Prettiest TV that Won't Ruin Your Interior Decor: Samsung The Frame 55-inch 4K QLED TV for $998 ($500 off) A Great Soundbar With No Ugly Cables: JBL Bar 1300x Soundbar System for $1,300 ($400 off) A Luxurious and Extravagant Soundbar: Sennheiser Ambeo Soundbar $1,700 ($180 off) A Compact Soundbar for Small Spaces: Yamaha Audio SR-C20A Compact Soundbar for $130 ($20 off) We test products year-round and handpicked these deals.
Products that are sold out or no longer discounted as of publishing will be crossed out.
 We'll update this guide periodically throughout the sale event.
Updated October 11: We added deals on the LG C3 OLED 65-inch, TCL Q6 55-Inch QLED 4K Smart TV, Nakamichi Shockwafe soundbar, and Polk Audio Signa soundbar.
If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
The Best Prime Day TV Deals On 55-Inch TVs Here are the best deals we've found on TVs for this October Prime Day.
Samsung The Frame Photograph: Walmart Amazon Anyone who cares about the aesthetics of their space probably doesn't want to stare at their TV screen all the time. That's where Samsung's The Frame comes in: This TV looks like a piece of art when not in use, helping it blend into the background of your well-curated space.
Hisense U8K Photograph: Hisense Amazon The Hisense U8K is among the best-value TVs we've ever seen. It features a mini LED display for ultra-bright colors and great contrast and is super easy to set up and use thanks to the onboard Google interface. Learn more in our full review ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ).
LG C2 OLED Photograph: LG Amazon This is a solid discount on LG's C2 OLED. This TV has perfect black levels and contrast, a center pedestal mount for easy setup with existing furniture, and a super-fast response time for gamers. It's easily one of the best TVs you can buy right now.
Samsung S95C Photograph: Samsung Amazon This quantum dot-enabled OLED ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) is the brightest organic LED display that we've tested. It has shockingly bright colors to go with its great contrast. Small bezels also help create a super immersive picture, making this one of the best TVs for brighter rooms. It also comes with a solar-powered remote, so you'll never have to hunt for AAA batteries.
Amazon Walmart Sony has always had some of the best image processing technology on the market, and that continues with its latest Bravia models. If you are an apartment dweller who wants excellent color accuracy, easy casting thanks to a Google interface, and a quick 120-Hz refresh rate for gaming, this is the high-end TV for you.
Amazon This is our favorite TV to recommend for most people. The mid-tier model ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) comes equipped with quantum dot technology and support for every high dynamic range (HDR) format for stunning colors. There's a game mode too, which uses software that can upscale 1080p to 120 frames per second. It's worth noting that, unlike older models, this one comes with Google TV instead of Roku. This is also the lowest price we've tracked, so far.
The Best Prime Day TV Deals On 65-Inch TVs Amazon Fire TV QLED Photograph: Amazon Amazon Amazon's Fire TVs are a solid and affordable way to get a quality screen for very little money. This 65-inch model has Dolby Vision support for good colors, and you can control it using your voice and Alexa.
Amazon Samsung's Neo QLED panels are some of the best and brightest I've ever seen, making them particularly well-suited to brighter viewing spaces. We have not tested this specific model, but there's built-in Alexa to help you set timers and play Spotify when you're not watching a movie. This one features mini-LED backlighting for near-perfect contrast and a center pedestal mount that lets you place it anywhere.
Amazon Best Buy Sony's organic LED displays are some of the prettiest TVs ever. Perfect black levels coupled with gorgeous processing make a phenomenal viewing experience. This one can also do 4K at 120 Hz, which makes it probably the prettiest gaming monitor ever made for those with a PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X, or gaming PC.
Target LG's C3 TV is a great option for gamers. It delivers vivid, high-contrast pictures with loaded detail. When gaming, it has lightning-fast response times (9.2 milliseconds to be exact) and it supports every current-gen console feature across all four of its HDMI sockets—complete with Quick Media Switching that ensures there's no delay when switching frame rate or resolution. Although it produces rather wheezy sound, you can pair it with compatible LG soundbars to help enhance the quality.
The Best Prime Day TV Deals On 75-Inch TVs TCL QM8 Photograph: TCL Amazon Best Buy This large screen comes with quantum dots for bright colors and a center pedestal mount that means it will fit on your existing TV stand. Mini-LED backlighting means great contrast, and it supports a 120-Hz refresh rate at 4K for the latest console and PC games.
Amazon Best Buy Hisense is a purveyor of quality mid-tier TVs, and this U7 is no exception. If you're after a larger screen to enjoy sports, the 144-Hz native refresh rate makes games (both real and virtual) look smooth as silk. I also like that it supports the latest high dynamic range codecs, so you get the brightest, most vibrant colors possible.
TCL Q6.
Photograph: TCL Amazon If you need a super large screen and you don't have a ton of cash lying around, this option from TCL is still solid. It has support for the latest high dynamic range codecs like Dolby Vision for great colors, and the built-in Fire TV interface features essentially any app you want. It's not the brightest or prettiest TV ever, but it is big and has bold color.
Walmart Amazon ($1,998) Samsung's Neo QLED panels are some of the best screens for bright rooms, and this pedestal-mounted 75-incher fits perfectly on most TV stands. This model also features mini-LED backlighting, which means you'll get even better contrast and color highlights, and it has Alexa onboard, which makes it easy to set timers and ask the weather.
Soundbar Deals JBL Bar 1300X.
Photograph: JBL Amazon The JBL Bar 1300X (8/10, WIRED Recommends ) comes with detachable wireless speakers. You can pop off the two speakers on the side of the main soundbar and place them wherever you'd like without having to worry about whether there are power outlets nearby or having to hide cables. It also has some of the best Dolby Atmos immersion we've heard from a soundbar at this price. The only downside is that, without cables, you'll have to charge the speakers between uses.
Amazon This soundbar from Yamaha is our top pick for upgrading your sound system on a budget. It's affordable to tack onto even a very modest TV budget and its 100 watt forward-facing drivers can easily outperform the speakers on most TVs.
Photograph: Roku Amazon We're fans of Roku's smart TV interface, and we obviously love upgrading a TV's audio with a solid soundbar. Which is why the Roku Streambar is our pick for doing both at once.
 It's small enough that it's ideal for homes where space is at a premium, and it obviates the need to buy a separate Roku stick on a soundbar that's already pretty inexpensive.
Amazon Zvox might be a lesser-known brand, but it's earned its slot in our favorite soundbars for its unique AccuVoice feature. This tech isolates voices to make them sound clearer, better than any other soundbar we've tested. This is particularly helpful if someone in your home is hard of hearing—or if you're watching a Christopher Nolan movie.
Amazon If you're the type to set up smart speakers and gadgets throughout your home, this soundbar from Yamaha lets you cut down on some of that work. It comes with Amazon Alexa built in, and can control a host of other smart home gadgets. We've actually seen this soundbar's price fluctuate a fair amount recently, sometimes as low as $180, but this is still nearly the cheapest we've ever seen it, so it's a good time to grab one.
Sennheiser Ambeo Soundbar.
Photograph: Amazon Amazon For the luxury-minded, this extravagant soundbar from Sennheiser is our top pick.
 It has massive speakers with some of the best audio quality we've seen (or heard, I suppose) of any soundbar we've tested. It's also one of the most expensive we recommend, but its price very rarely dips this low, so if you've been waiting for the perfect sale to grab one, now's the time.
Amazon WIRED reviewer Jaina Grey has spent a few years with this very large dual-subwoofer soundbar system from Japan. The two huge subwoofers deliver earth-shattering bass, while the two side speakers and rear speakers provide more lifelike reproduction than soundbars that bounce sound off the walls for side and rear noises. It also comes with support for all major object-based surround formats (like DTS:X and Dolby Atmos). It's great for large spaces, where the extra bass response helps things feel more cinematic. This is also the lowest price we've tracked, so far.
Amazon This is our favorite soundbar-subwoofer combo in our guide to Best Soundbars.
 With a basic, no-frills remote and an HDMI ARC connection to plug into a modern TV, it's easy to set up. You'll also have the choice between different modes, all of which work well. There's Cinema mode which works in a stimulated 3.1.2 Atmos surround, making it fairly room-filling; Music mode, which gives you a more normal stereo image; and Night mode which limits the subwoofer action.
Amazon Best Buy Walmart REI B&H Moment The Home Depot Lowe's Wayfair Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Read next Read next The Best Prime Day Deals on Apple Devices More WIRED Prime Big Deal Days Coverage Absolute Best Deals Deals Under $50 Best Buy Flash Sale All-Clad Deals Amazon Kindle Deals Mattress Deals Lego Deals Laptop Deals TV Deals Apple Deals Espresso Machine Deals Sex Toy Deals Prime Day Shopping Tips Get a 1-Year Subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off) Subscriptions help fund our work.
Writer and Reviewer X Topics Amazon Prime Day Shopping Deals Amazon Prime Day Deals Eric Ravenscraft Nena Farrell Louryn Strampe Louryn Strampe Matt Jancer Nena Farrell Matt Jancer Matt Jancer WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
