Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Jennifer M. Wood Culture The 11 Best Sci-Fi Movies You Can Stream Right Now, From 2001 to Ex Machina Save this story Save Save this story Save As film genres go, science fiction is often the one that's hardest for folks to get into. Literal-minded moviegoers often have a hard time with worlds where anything—and everything—is possible and, well, some people just don't like space. But those willing to give in to their imaginations are deeply rewarded. That's because, when done right, sci-fi can offer a truly enriching cinematic experience—one where science and technology can easily be tempered with humor, horror, drama, or all of the above. Does all this talk make you wish you were diving into some great sci-fi right now? Good. Here’s the best of what you can currently find on Netflix, Hulu, and Amazon. The future, dear streamers, is bright.
If you only ever watch one sci-fi film in your life, let it be Stanley Kubrick’s 2001: A Space Odyssey.
 A beautiful meditation on the evolution of humankind, the film's vast scope and breathtaking cinematography make it a bit of a mind-bender. It’s also quite prescient: The bulk of the action follows a group of men on a space mission who are aided, then held hostage, by HAL 9000—a piece of AI technology that has gotten better at being human than the flesh-and-blood astronauts relying on it. Its pace is glacial, but its storytelling and groundbreaking filmmaking techniques make it unlike almost anything else in cinema history.
Where to stream it: Amazon When you're a 31-year-old director who just invented "the blockbuster" with a flawless film about a vengeful shark, there’s only one thing to do: make an alien movie. In Steven Spielberg's Jaws follow-up, Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) is a blue-collar family guy whose late-night run-in with a UFO turns into an obsession. Much like last year’s Arrival , Close Encounters of the Third Kind steers clear of the horror-leaning "alien invasion" tropes and instead focuses on the practical implications of discovering extra-terrestrial life—like communication. Nearly 40 years later, it's still one of the most intelligent first-contact films ever made.
Where to stream it: Amazon The spacecraft Nostromo and her crew, which includes warrant officer Ellen Ripley (Sigourney Weaver), are headed home to Earth when they receive a distress call from a nearby planetoid and make a detour to investigate. Bad move. What they find is an unknown species of alien that begins to knock off crew members one by one.
Alien turned Ridley Scott into a sci-fi icon while also launching a franchise that continues to this day (his next entry, Alien: Covenant , is due out in May). The movie also set the stage for the director's other bit of essential sci-fi viewing: 1982's Blade Runner.
Where to stream it: Amazon With all due respect to George Lucas and A New Hope , Irvin Kershner’s Empire Strikes Back is the rare sequel that manages to outshine its predecessor. Taking place a few years after the original film, the movie sees Darth Vader trying desperately to find the Rebel Alliance, which—under the leadership of Princess Leia (Carrie Fisher)—has set up shop on Hoth. Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) and Han Solo (Harrison Ford) are out there own their own, too, and as any Star Wars fan knows, the Rebels are at their most powerful when our trio of heroes is working together.
Where to stream it: Amazon Like Star Wars , the Max Max franchise got a narrative boost with its second entry, Mad Max 2: The Road Warrior.
 Whereas George Miller's original 1979 film saw Mel Gibson's Max Rockatansky fighting against the decline of a futuristic society, Road Warrior was a full-on dystopia centered on the aftermath of the events in the original movie and Max's attempt to reclaim his own humanity. Plus: Cool cars! Where to stream it: Amazon Science fiction and dystopia go together like John Carpenter and synth scores. Fortunately, Escape from New York has all four. Set in the then-future year of 1997, *Escape'*s America is essentially a war zone where Manhattan is one big maximum security prison. That lock-up is where the POTUS lands when Air Force One crashes following an attempted hijacking. With the president being held hostage by one of the nation’s most notorious crime bosses, the government enlists the help of Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell), a soldier-turned-criminal who might just be America’s last great hope. Like much of Carpenter’s output, there’s a certain kitschiness to the entire thing—which is exactly what makes it a classic.
Where to stream it: Amazon Yes, it’s a comedy. And sort of a family film, too. But at its heart, Back to the Future is a sci-fi movie—and one of the most perfect examples of the genre. Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox) is your typical cool '80s teen who just so happens to pal around with a mad scientist, Doc Brown (Christopher Lloyd), who invents a time machine. Through a series of unfortunate events, Marty ends up getting sent back to 1955, where he befriends the teenaged versions of his parents and does his best to dissuade his mom from having the hots for him. By messing with history, Marty’s messing with his own future and slowly being erased. But he manages to right the past, find his way back to 1985, and give those fun-loving kids a taste of what rock ‘n’ roll should sound like.
Where to stream it: Amazon Though the '80s are often associated with neon, popped collars, and Members Only jackets, a quick look at some of the most popular films of the decade are proof that there was also a deep sense of disillusionment. In the same year that Gordon Gekko was declaring "greed is good" in Wall Street , Paul Verhoeven was unleashing one of the decade’s most subversive sci-fi flicks, which sees the mayor of Detroit hand over control to the evil Omni Consumer Products (OCP), an outfit that turns Motor City into a testing ground for new technology. That new tech includes RoboCop, a law-enforcing cyborg who attempts to eradicate the city of crime—until memories of his human existence find their way back into his head.
Where to stream it: Amazon If The Terminator raised the bar for sci-fi films, Terminator 2: Judgment Day broke it. Like the many cyborg movies that came before it—including the original— T2 is a commentary on what it means to be human, and how far is “too far” when it comes to developing intelligent technology. While the storyline is similar to the first film—a Terminator is sent to LA to kill John Connor, the boy who will eventually lead the human resistance— Judgment Day makes this list for one important reason that has nothing to do with plot: amazing VFX. For T2 , director James Cameron employed some truly groundbreaking CGI to create Terminators that moved like nothing else had before. And those liquid-metal shots are still impressive more than 25 years later.
Where to stream it: Amazon, Hulu Given the immense popularity of The Matrix , it was obvious that many sequels would follow. And while they may have slightly diluted the impact of the first film, The Matrix still stands alone in its ability to combine impressive direction with mind-bending action sequences and a storyline that actually makes you think. It also brought the directing duo the Wachowskis to the forefront of the action movie scene, and it’s been a better place ever since.
Where to stream it: Amazon Though one could easily point to the 1980s as the apex of the sci-fi film movement, the new millennium has proven that there are still plenty of unique stories to be told within the genre. But with its stellar acting, pitch-perfect directing, and relevant storyline, Ex Machina just might be the one we most need right now. When a programmer (Domhnall Gleeson) is sent to the isolated home of a tech wunderkind (Oscar Isaac), he believes he’s been invited to help in the development of a brilliant and beautiful humanoid robot named Ava (Alicia Vikander). But as Ava reveals more about herself, it becomes clear that she—not the humans—is in control.
Where to stream it: Amazon Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Topics Movies Sci-fi Jennifer M. Wood Jennifer M. Wood Angela Watercutter Matt Kamen Jennifer M. Wood Jennifer M. Wood Matt Kamen Jennifer M. Wood Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
