Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Simon Hill Gear Robot Vacuums Still Haven’t Floored Me Photograph: Darya Danik/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save As I ran around the house picking up discarded cat toys and odd socks, I began to feel a nagging sense of doubt. I knew that no matter how hard I worked, I would soon receive a distress call from our robot vacuum, Gizmo IV, who always gets stuck in the same spot under the couch. After Gizmo finishes, I then have to pick hair out of the carpet, which Gizmo expertly clumps but never sucks in. After that, I could look forward to a face full of dust as I emptied its tiny, barely-half-full bin (despite Gizmo’s protests that it can hold no more).
In fact, the week after pitching this very article, I came downstairs to find foul-smelling skid marks across the floors. Our youngest cat, Luna, often poops next to the litter tray instead of inside. At first, I feared an infection had prompted her to wipe all over the house. But following my nose revealed the terrible truth. A machine designed to spread poo could not have done a better job. I may never recover from the horror. While picking pieces of my cat’s fishy feculence from Gizmo’s tire tread with a toothpick, I began to wonder why I got a robot vacuum in the first place.
When they first trundled onto the scene, more than two decades ago, robot vacuums were prohibitively expensive and not very good at their job. But feature lists have swollen, and prices have fallen. Around 14 percent of Americans own a robot vacuum , and 13 percent intend to buy one, which would press around 30 million into service in American homes.
Raves from friends convinced us to purchase our first robot vacuum, a Eufy Robovac 11 that we dubbed Gizmo I. The promise of a machine toiling while we sat with our feet up was enticing. But I have come to believe that the ideal robot vacuum owner lives in a single-level home with hardwood floors and no pets or children. Our mostly carpeted, two-story household contains one balding cleaner (me), three messy, long-haired humans, and two messy, long-haired cats. Gizmo had as much chance as King Canute struggling against the tide.
No one told me how much maintenance they need. It’s not enough to empty the bin. You must regularly unscrew rollers, gently clean plastic covers, unspool hair, change filters and brushes, polish metal charging contacts—the list continues. Fail to keep up with regular maintenance, and your robot vacuum will cease to perform.
The average life expectancy of a robot vacuum in the Hill house is 10 months. Gizmo I lasted nine before it began to turn uselessly in circles; Gizmo II, a Eufy Robovac 11S, managed eight and then declined to turn on; and Gizmo III, a Trifo Max, made it just six before refusing to hold more than 15 minutes of charge. Gizmo IV is an iRobot Roomba 965, and the first to go beyond a full year.
With all my moaning, you may wonder why I persist with a robot vacuum at all. But as with most labor-saving devices, from the dishwasher to the blender, once you use one you never go back. Even a budget robot vacuum saves you some time. Gizmo nails the post-breakfast cleanup—I’ll never have to sweep up another stray Rice Krispie again. It also keeps our hardwood hall free of mud and dust and picks up stray cat litter.
As Adrienne So, our resident robot vacuum expert , pointed out, manufacturers have been working on the problems I encountered for a while now. She reviewed a botvac that could recognize pet poop years ago. Ecovacs, Roborock, and iRobot have done a lot with obstacle identification and navigation. We have been pushing self-emptying bins for a few years.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Would I give up on Gizmo? Never. I’ve also grown to love the self-satisfied tune it plays on the odd occasion it makes it home to the charging base after a successful clean. Before you give up on yours, a quick Google search might help you diagnose your ailing robot vacuum. It might just need a deep clean or a replacement part. You will not believe how much hair can get clogged inside one of these things until you indulge in a little exploratory surgery.
Most of our issues were likely caused by spotty maintenance and our modest budget. But if you’re considering one of your own, my advice for interested shoppers is to read our guide to the best robot vacuums , save up for a decent model, and be aware that no matter how expensive it is, there will always be spots it cannot reach and obstacles it cannot overcome. We live in a fallen world, and Gizmo is just one more imperfect part of it. Someday, perhaps, they will make a model that can tackle stairs.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-Year Subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! Sober influencers and the end of alcohol For mRNA , Covid vaccines are just the beginning The future of the web is AI-generated marketing copy Keep your home connected with the best wi-fi routers How to limit who can contact you on Instagram 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database 🏃🏽‍♀️ Want the best tools to get healthy? Check out our Gear team’s picks for the best fitness trackers , running gear (including shoes and socks ), and best headphones Contributor X Topics robot vacuum cleaning smart home rants and raves Shopping Reece Rogers Andrew Watman Eric Ravenscraft Matt Jancer Simon Hill Matt Jancer Simon Hill Adrienne So WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
