Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Angela Watercutter Culture The Pope’s Coat Is Here to Ruin Your Faith Photograph: Antonio Masiello/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save The Monitor is a weekly column devoted to everything happening in the WIRED world of culture, from movies to memes, TV to Twitter.
Future generations will acknowledge the vibe shift. It happened last weekend, when all of a sudden social media feeds filled with images of Pope Francis, typically a pious and plain dude, looking like a boss in a sleek white puffer coat. It was instantly a meme, a LOL in a sea of bad news. It was also not real. Someone created the image using the artificial intelligence tool Midjourney. But it fooled a lot of people—so many that news outlets began calling it “one of the first instances of wide-scale misinformation stemming from artificial intelligence.” Reality Check Reece Rogers Art Official Angela Watercutter Ideas Joshua Glick Just typing that sentence feels haunting. Like the first time you see someone in a red cloak in The Handmaid’s Tale.
 Not that this portends dystopia. It was, after all, just one image of the pope looking fly. But what if it was an image declaring itself to be a battlefield in the war in Ukraine? Or of President Biden taking some kind of secret meeting? The possibilities of AI generating that kind of misinformation are daunting.
Getting scores of people to fall for a disastrous deepfake of Volodymyr Zelensky takes a little more work than misleading them with a goofy picture of a pontiff, of course. As Charlie Warzel pointed out in The Atlantic this week, everyone uses “different heuristics to try to suss out truth,” and it’s easier to believe Pope Francis would wear a puffer than that, say, those AI images of former president Donald Trump getting arrested are real. So it’s not hard to see why so many just saw them, giggled, and kept scrolling without questioning their authenticity.
But this does set a troubling precedent. The creator of the Pope Coat image wasn’t attempting to mislead anyone. In fact, he told BuzzFeed News he was just tripping on shrooms and trying to think of funny images. But what if it was part of a misinformation campaign? A lot of AI-generated content is already so clean that it’s hard for human eyes and ears to detect its origins.
Viewers would probably never have known that Anthony Bourdain’s voice was faked in the documentary Roadrunner if director Morgan Neville hadn’t told The New Yorker.
 Deepfakes are already being used as political tools.
 As it is, skeptics can consult trusted news sources if they suspect an image is fake, but trust in the news media is already approaching record lows.
 If anyone can now generate an image of anything, and faith in any source that might debunk that image is at an all-time low, who is going to believe their lying eyes? A few days after the AI-generated images of Pope Francis went viral, the pontiff was taken to a hospital in Rome for a respiratory infection.
 He’s been improving ever since, but as that (real) news spread, it got a bit lost amidst stories of the fake image. The pope was trending for two very different reasons, and at first glance it was hard to determine which was the one of substance.
The era of social media has transformed the Very Online into pretty good sleuths. Skepticism reigns. But so do conspiracy theories. Beyond the post-truth era is a time when convincing images, text, and even video can be generated from thin air. One of the internet’s great promises was that anyone could broadcast information to a much larger audience than before. For years, the liars have been easier to spot: bad URLs, shitty photoshop, typos—all these things gave the scoundrels away. AI can smooth their mistakes. I’m not Chicken Little, but maybe I just haven’t yet been fooled by an image of the falling sky.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker You Might Also Like … 📨 Make the most of chatbots with our AI Unlocked newsletter Taylor Swift, Star Wars, Stranger Things , and Deadpool have one man in common Generative AI is playing a surprising role in Israel-Hamas disinformation The new era of social media looks as bad for privacy as the last one Johnny Cash’s Taylor Swift cover predicts the boring future of AI music Your internet browser does not belong to you 🔌 Charge right into summer with the best travel adapters , power banks , and USB hubs Senior Editor X Tumblr Topics The Monitor fake news memes artificial intelligence Angela Watercutter Alex Winter Angela Watercutter Angela Watercutter Kate Knibbs Kate Knibbs Jason Parham Kate Knibbs Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
