Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Lisa Niver Gear 8 Useful iPhone Tips for Ex-Android Users Photograph: Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Seven years ago, working on a video web series shot in Puerto Rico, the director told me they liked the footage I'd shot on my smartphone. The problem was I could not figure out how to get it off the phone. My devices—an Android phone and an Apple laptop—were in a fight, just like my marriage. I thought, “Can’t everyone just get along?” But no, it doesn’t work that way.
I had to use a software bridge to transfer between the phone and the computer, and every time there was an upgrade on either side, the transition became uncertain. I used Commander One , Android Transfer , anything I could find. Nothing worked consistently, especially with large video files. My cohost asked me, “Why are you living in two universes?” While I thought he was referring to the fact that I had recently left my husband on another continent, he actually meant: Why did I have a Nokia phone and a MacBook Air? Shortly after that film shoot, I ditched my husband for good, but I went on to have seven LG phones, as their cameras and video quality kept improving. On any group trip, everyone would agree to let me take the pictures because my camera was just better. It seemed worth the struggle to keep the dual status because the image quality was far superior.
Early in the pandemic, a film director for the Discovery Channel told me he had switched to the iPhone12 Pro Max. Shortly after, LG announced it was leaving the phone business. I asked myself, “What could make my life easier?” and went to Costco to get a new phone. I knew that swapping would have challenges, but I told myself Costco always takes things back and walked out with a new iPhone 12 Pro Max.
My iPhone friends said, “Welcome to the Dark Side” as they anxiously waited for my chat bubbles to change from green to blue. I was a rookie, and it felt like a rocky new relationship at first, but eventually I found my bearings. Here are some of my favorite features and a few cool tricks for Android users making the switch—some of which have even made friends who are loyal iPhone users say, “How do I do that?” My main goal was to have my photos appear on my laptop easily, instead of struggling to move them over from Android. Initially I needed some help with this, so I made an online appointment to speak to Apple Tech Support, and after some back and forth, my devices were able to speak to each other. Tech support helped me redirect the photo library. To work with my photos, all I do now is select a group of photos, create a new album, and Airdrop them from my phone to my desktop. The photos are also in the Photos app on my laptop and backed up immediately in iCloud.
 When I make movies from an adventure, like my recent excursion with bears in Ketchikan, Alaska, I can move the videos from the desktop into iMovie, and it is seamless, painless, and so much easier than it used to be.
Good news: An iPhone can make you feel younger. My doctor takes her reading glasses everywhere, and it makes her feel old. With one step, I taught her to turn on Magnifier.
In your iPhone or iPad, go to Settings > Accessibility.
 Tap Magnifier , then turn it on. Now tap the button on the right side of the phone three times and the powerful magnifier will open. My doctor can ditch the reading glasses at the market or on a date because she already has her phone. She has had an iPhone for 14 years but never knew it could help her read small print. With Android, you need to download a special app, and while there are plenty to choose from, it’s nice having the feature baked into your phone.
Screen Record, as its name implies, allows you to record a video of your screen. To do so, swipe diagonally down from the upper right corner to get to the control center and then press the screen record button. It will give you a countdown of 3 before it starts, so make sure you are open to what you want to record BEFORE you press the button.
When I wrote a Thrive Global article about brand expert Aliza Licht, she made a video of the article and tweeted it.
When I asked her how to do it, she said, “You need an iPhone!” Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft X content This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.
On Android, the screenshot function used a combination of pressing buttons on the sides. Whatever the combo is meant to be on the iPhone, I just could not make it work (Ed. Note: It’s supposed to be the Sleep/Wake button and Volume up , but it depends on the model of iPhone you have!) Then I figured out I could use the back tap, which is easier than the actual button combo. To set it up, go to Settings > Accessibility > Touch , and tap Back Tap.
I use double-tap for screenshots. You can pick the action you want from the many choices, and there is an option for both double- and triple-tap. Sometimes I accidentally get a photo because the phone thinks I tapped it when I set it down or it hits something, but those mistakes are easy to delete, and I really like to take screenshots, so it works for me.
One friend called me and said, “Now that you have an iPhone, can you teach me how to add a custom ringtone?” She'd had an iPhone for more than a decade and never figured it out. For your general phone ringtone, go to Settings > Sounds & Haptics > Ringtone > and select a ringtone or download one you have purchased from the Tone Store.
If you want to have a special ring for a contact, open the Contacts app > select a contact, tap Edit , tap Ringtone , then choose a ringtone for that person. I set my dad’s phone to ring like the opening music from his all-time favorite TV show, 24.
 You can have a different ring for your boss, spouse, child, or best friend.
When I was meeting a friend in a crowded park for a walk, I dropped a pin in Maps to indicate where I was waiting. She then followed the pin and was able to park her car next to me. You can follow these steps like your own Yellow Brick Road: Open the Apple Maps app, click on the Blue dot (which is where you are), and then click on the blue Share my location button to send the pin to anyone by iMessage or Airdrop. You can do the same in Google Maps, but it requires a few extra hoops to share your location.
Have you always wanted to be a cartoon character? Press the A button on the left of the text message box and then click on the Brown button with the yellow parentheses to create your Memoji, an avatar that looks, sounds, and moves like you. You can even animate your face. Personally, I made my skin blue so I look like an actual character from the movie Avatar.
 It makes me laugh every time I see it! You can also send messages in iMessage with invisible ink, which looks like shifting sand. Your recipient then has to rub their finger over the message for the ink to appear, but it's even better if you are sending a photo and do not want anyone looking over someone’s shoulder to see it. There are also sound effects, such as “slam,” “loud,” and “gentle,” and screen effects like balloons, confetti, spotlight, laser, and fireworks. These are accessed by holding down the blue arrow at the end of a text message prior to sending.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Lisa Niver's custom-made blue memoji, on her brand new iPhone.
Courtesy Lisa Niver After a few months, I finally feel like I have nearly earned my Apple Girl Scout badge or travel visa for the land of iPhone. It was a bumpy beginning, but I am confident that I will learn more tips and tricks with time. For me, it is better to be all in one universe.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! Is Becky Chambers the ultimate hope for science fiction? An excerpt from The Every, Dave Eggers' new novel Why James Bond doesn't use an iPhone The time to buy your holiday presents now Religious exemptions for vaccine mandates shouldn't exist 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database 🎮 WIRED Games: Get the latest tips, reviews, and more ✨ Optimize your home life with our Gear team’s best picks, from robot vacuums to affordable mattresses to smart speakers Contributor X Instagram Topics iPhone how-to tips ios phones Android Justin Pot Julian Chokkattu Brenda Stolyar Julian Chokkattu Erin Hug David Nield Julian Chokkattu Boone Ashworth WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
