Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Scott Gilbertson Phones How to Pick the Right Pixel 4 and Where to Preorder It Photograph: Google Save this story Save Save this story Save Google's Pixel 4 phones are here. There are two new models to choose from: the Pixel 4 and the larger Pixel 4 XL. If you're trying to decide which one to get and where to buy it, look no further. We've broken down all the preordering options and found the best places to snag a new Pixel 4 before it ships on October 24.
If you'd like to see what else Google announced, including other new devices like the Pixel Buds earphones, Pixelbook Go laptop, and Nest Mini speaker with Google Assistant, check out our full coverage of Google's fall hardware event.
Note: When you buy something using the retail links in our stories, we may earn a small affiliate commission. Read more about how this works.
Google's latest flagship handset comes in two sizes: the 5.7-inch Pixel 4 and the 6.3-inch Pixel 4 XL. Aside from the screen, the hardware is each version is identical.
Both Phones have OLED displays with the same resolution as last year's Pixel 3. Google has added HDR support, so this year's screens can better represent lights and darks. The new display is UHDA certified, which means it meets the industry standard for showing high dynamic range content. The bigger screen news in this update is the 90-megahertz refresh rate, which should make scrolling through webpages and apps feel even more smooth.
Also new is the dual camera system. Google has plopped a 16-megapixel telephoto lens alongside the more familiar 12-megapixel wide angle lens. The Pixel 4 camera system still relies heavily on Google's computational photography for many of its features, but the new lens allows for even more camera cleverness.
The Pixel 4 has a Qualcomm Snapdragon 855 chip with 6 gigabytes of RAM. Both versions of the Pixel 4 are available with two storage capacity options; one with 64 GB of storage and one with 128 GB. If you can swing it, go for 128 GB. If you can only afford the smaller capacity, learn to use the cloud backup features in Google Photos , which can clear up a lot of space.
Aside from the specs, the Pixel 4 also looks significantly different from last year's model—at least, as much as a rectangular smartphone handset can. The characteristic dual-tone back panel that defined the first three generations is gone. Instead the Pixel 4 adopts a more uniform look on the back that's similar to its high-end competitors like the Apple iPhone and Samsung Galaxy. The Pixel 4 even has a glossy-backed option. Also gone is the rear fingerprint sensor—the Pixel 4 instead relies on face recognition to quickly unlock the phone.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Here's our quick take on the new Pixel 4: The Pixel 4 ($799) is the best phone for most people: The 5.7-inch display of the Pixel 4 is going to provide more than enough screen real estate for most users, and with all other factors being equal, the base model Pixel 4 gives you the most bang for your buck.
Grab the Pixel 4 XL ($899) if you want better battery life: The Pixel 4 XL isn't really that huge relative to other hugephones, but the extra bulk does get you a larger battery. With the more power-intensive 90-Hz refresh rate on the display, frankly, you're probably going to want some extra battery power. The Pixel 4 XL has a larger, 3,700mAh battery, which is still on the small size for a phone of this size, but at least bigger than the plain Pixel 4's 2,800mAh battery.
The Pixel 3A (currently $349) is still the best deal on an Android Phone: Google did not announce a successor to the Pixel 3A and likely won't until next May, but Google's Pixel 3A (9/10, WIRED Recommends) is still a great phone. You get a fantastic camera, the still-fast Snapdragon 670 processor, 64 gigabytes of storage, and 4 GB of RAM. It's not going to be anywhere near as fast or smooth as the Pixel 4, or even the Pixel 3, but it's half the price, and often on sale. It's also fast enough that you probably won't notice a huge difference between this model and its more expensive cousins.
No matter which phone you end up with, get a case. The Pixel 4 has glass on the front and the back, and it's worth protecting your investment with a case.
If you don't like the extra size and weight of a case, but still want one, the Spigen Neo Hybrid provides good protection without being overly bulky. If you want really bulletproof protection though, go for an OtterBox case.
The easiest way to preorder a Pixel 4 or Pixel 4 XL is from Google. We recommend you buy your Pixel 4 unlocked from Google, Amazon, or other retailers. That way you'll be able to use it on any wireless carrier, should you ever decide to switch. When it comes time to upgrade in a couple of years, you'll get more money back for an unlocked phone.
Google offers a $100 accessories credit with Pixel 4 orders : Buy it unlocked. Google offers up to a $100 credit toward accessories.
Amazon offers a $100 gift card : You can get a $100 Amazon gift card with purchase of a Pixel 4 or XL.
Best Buy offers a $100 gift card : Best Buy will give you a $150 Best Buy gift card with the purchase and activation of a Pixel 4 or 4 XL on Verizon, AT&T or Sprint. You can also get a $100 Best Buy gift card if you choose not to activate it.
Walmart also offers a $100 gift card : It's tough to find proper info about Walmart's sale, but supposedly you will get a $100 gift card if you order a Pixel 4.
Pixel 4 from B&H : B&H has no deals, but it does have preorders for the Pixel 4.
Below are some major retailer offers, which should all sell unlocked versions of the phone. Again, unlocked is really the way to go, since it frees you up to use any network or sell/gift your phone down the road. Having said that, there are some carrier specific deals out there. They're worth a look if you're not planning to sell your phone in the future or switch wireless networks. We've linked to the standard Pixel 4 pages.
Verizon offers a buy-one-get-one deal for new unlimited subscribers : Verizon has a couple deals. New and existing customers can trade in an eligible smartphone and save up to $450 on a Pixel 4 (depending on the trade-in value). If you switch to Verizon and pony up for the unlimited plan, and pick up a full price Pixel 4, you can get a second 64 GB Pixel 4 free of charge. Here's a link to the Pixel 4 page.
T-Mobile offers a free Pixel 4 with Pixel trade-in : You'll need to add a new line and have either a Pixel 2 or 3 to trade in. The original Pixel will get you $500 off. Unfortunately T-Mobile does not currently offer the 128 GB model.
AT&T offers $700 off with an eligible trade-in : The catch is that you'll need an AT&T unlimited plan, and you'll need to begin paying off your new Pixel 4 or 4 XL on a "qualifying installment plan" before you start seeing the benefits of the discount. The plan in question means AT&T will begin charging you $28 per month on a 30-month plan, so you'll be charged a total of $840 for your new Pixel. However, after your first three payments, AT&T will start applying a monthly credit for whatever amount it determined you're getting based on your old phone's trade-in value. That credit can add up to as much as $700 total over the 30 months, meaning your phone will cost you as little as $140 in the end. This isn't the best deal since it plays out over two years, but if you want to be on AT&T's network, it's a way to get a cheap Pixel 4.
Sprint sort of has a deal : The carrier is offering a leasing deal. Lease a Pixel 4 or Pixel 4 XL and get a second one for $0 per month when you either switch to Sprint or add a new line to your existing account. Sprint is the only vendor allowing you to choose either the 4 or the 4 XL for each of the two lines.
The first smartphone war 7 cybersecurity threats that can sneak up on you “Forever chemicals” are in your popcorn— and your blood EVs fire up pyroswitches to cut risk of shock after a crash The spellbinding allure of Seoul's fake urban mountains 👁 Prepare for the deepfake era of video ; plus, check out the latest news on AI ✨ Optimize your home life with our Gear team’s best picks, from robot vacuums to affordable mattresses to smart speakers.
Senior Writer and Reviewer X Topics Shopping phone Android Pixel Saira Mueller Julian Chokkattu Nena Farrell Louryn Strampe Eric Ravenscraft Nena Farrell Matt Jancer Louryn Strampe WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
