Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now About Released on 03/25/2022 Taking photos at night on your phone used to look terrible.
But if you purchased a new smartphone recently, you may have noticed that your night photos have improved.
Ah, much better.
You can even take photos of stars.
I'm Julian Chokkattu, reviews editor at Wired, and I've been reviewing smartphones for over five years.
How has smartphone photography gone from this, to this beautiful photo? Before we get into the technology behind the new night modes, let's first have a little chat about bad photos.
Take a look at this photo here, taken on an iPhone Five around 2014.
A couple elements stand out to me, like that classic lens flare, or the blur.
No matter how nice or advanced the camera is, it's always going to need a good source of light.
That's exposure, the amount of light that reaches your camera sensor.
Right now, this lovely crew has lit me really well.
Let me show you.
[soft music] If they cut the lights, now I'm back lit and underexposed.
This is the iPhone 3G in low light, and this is the iPhone 13 Pro in low light.
Let's get the lights back on.
Part of the reason the iPhone 3G looks so underexposed is because it didn't spend a lot of time taking the photo.
That's shutter speed.
That's the length of time the camera's little door is open, exposing light onto the camera sensor.
One of the main reasons night mode on your phone asks you to stay still is because the longer you have the shutter open, the more light you can let in, which will produce a brighter photo.
But here's the thing.
In night photos, the seconds it's asking you to wait, it's actually taking more and more photos to make a composite with machine learning algorithms.
So night mode is a part of the field of computational photography.
I'm going to call up Ramesh Raskar at the MIT Photo Lab to get into the technical element of how it works.
[Ramesh] Hi Julian.
Would you be able to tell me what exactly is happening when you take a night photo in a modern day smartphone? There are three elements in any photography.
There is capture, there is process, and then there's display.
And what we have seen over the last 10 years is there is amazing improvement in all three areas.
So how is the software actually changing what the photo will look like? You will hear all these terms, HDR, HDR plus, night mode, smart HDR, but all of them are roughly doing the same thing.
This key idea of so-called deep fusion, where you're fusing the photos by using machine learning and computer vision, is really the breakthrough into today's low light photography.
Could you explain HDR? So HDR, traditionally high dynamic range, simply means whether it's bright scene or a dark scene, you can capture that in a single photo.
A smartphone, it has seen millions of photos of a sunset, or a food, or a human face.
It has learned over time, what are the best ways to enhance such a photo, and how to either reduce the graininess, or how to make it look more vibrant and choose the right saturation? Choosing those parameters is basically machine learning when it comes to photography.
Now let's take a look at this machine learning in action by comparing some photos.
The one on the left is the iPhone 3G, so quite a long time ago.
And the one on the right is the iPhone 12.
What are your first thoughts in what they're doing differently? So you can see that the previous phones just gave you a photo from a single instant.
The photo on the right is actually not physically real, in the sense that there were different things.
People were bobbling their heads, and the lights were flashing.
And so the photo's actually composed by multiple instances.
So when you try to fuse these multiple photos, the light in one photo could be one direction, light in the later photo could be in a different direction.
And it's taking some clever decisions to create an illusion, as if this photo was taken at that single instant.
Here you can also see the HDR into effect, where the audience is completely dark in the iPhone 3G photo, whereas you can actually see everyone's heads in the other one.
If an AI is learning how to color correct a night scene based on what it thinks it should be, are we moving away from photo realism? Julian, I think photo realism is dead.
We should just bury it, and it's all about hallucination.
The photo you get today has almost nothing to do with what the physics of the photo says.
It's all based on what these companies are saying the photo should look like.
So yeah, I took one of these with the Pixel Six and one of these with the iPhone 13 Max Pro.
What happened there that would've caused those colors to be very different between the two photos? These two companies have decided to give you a very different photo experience.
The Pixel might have taken 20 photos.
It's also recognizing certain features whether there's a sky, is it outdoor? What kind of wide balance it has? There's some automatic beautification also being applied.
So most of the photos we see are hallucinations, but not the physical representation of the world out there.
These companies are providing us with ways to control some of that, like turn off that beautification feature or maybe make it even stronger.
Do you think that's where the compromise will lie with the people that do want to maybe tailor some of their own shots to give them that control, and those options to tweak their settings? The innovations in all these three areas have actually taken the control away from us.
But in reality, it's not that difficult for these companies to provide those controls back to us.
They're just making an assumption that most consumers would like to just take a photo, click a button, and get something they really would like to see, whether it matches the reality or not.
I think the thing that we really care about is we go on a trip, and you reach Paris, and the Eiffel Tower is in a haze.
And what you would like to see is take a photo with your family with Eiffel Tower in the back as if it's a bright sunny day, right? And that's where as a consumer, you yourself are willing to separate the physics, the reality from hallucination, because if somebody can paste just a bright, sunny photo of Eiffel Tower behind your family, you'll be pretty happy about it.
So we focused on night photography.
Every time we look at the nighttime photos, those actually do seem to be improving year over year.
But broadly, what would you say are some of those challenges that are left for photography in general when it comes to smartphones? In terms of night mode, there are lots of challenges right now.
If you want do something that's high speed, it's very difficult to capture that at nighttime.
It's also difficult to capture very good color in nighttime, because nighttime photos have, when they use burst mode, the challenge with burst mode is that every frame has a so-called read noise.
So there's a cost a camera pays every time it reads the photos.
But the other technique many companies are using is just using lots of tiny lenses.
Now some phone companies have five lenses, and that's one trick to capture just five times more light.
How does that affect the rest of the phone's capabilities? What can we expect in the future? Photography or imaging should give us superhuman powers, so we should be able to see through fog, we should be able to see through rain.
we should be able to see a butterfly and see all the spectrums, not just the three colors.
I think the notion that we should just see what we are seemingly experiencing is not in different displays, but I would like to see a beautiful view finder.
If I'm in Paris and as I'm moving my view finder, it should tell me, hey, if I take a picture of the Eiffel Tower, it's very jaded.
A lot of people are out taking a photo.
But if you keep rolling and there is this tiny statue, actually not enough people have taken the photo of this.
So I think we're going to see this very interesting progress in capture, processing, and display.
And I'm very excited about what photography of tomorrow will look like.
[soft music] I'm going to show you some of my favorite features with the iPhone 13 Pro and the Google Pixel Six.
We're doing low light photography, so let's cut the lights.
Let's open up the camera and see what happens with night mode.
You can see that I'm already in a pretty dark area, so night mode has been triggered here.
Once you tap it, you can actually control the length of the exposure.
So if you think that you might need a longer shot, sometimes that might produce a brighter image.
If I tap on the background, it'll expose for the background and it will also change the focus there.
So you can actually slide it up and down to change the brightness, or the shadows in the shot.
Those are just a couple of features in the camera app themselves.
All right, let's bring the lights back on.
So we have to talk about tripods.
Tripods are an easy way to up your photo game, especially at night.
Of course, a large problem of taking photos at night is the hand shake of when you're taking a photo.
Once more, can we cut the lights? Can I get a volunteer? So now I'm going to first take a photo without a tripod, and see how it reacts then.
So you can just basically switch over to the night site mode and tap the photo.
But now if I switch over to a tripod, it's going to be much more stable.
And if I tap the button, it knows that it's on a tripod, and you can see it is taking a lot longer to take the photo.
It's taking multiple, multiple images of different exposures.
Shooting handheld is a problem, because the shutter speed is trying to take in as much light as possible.
And that means your hands are shaking, and that's influencing the shot.
That's what makes it impossible taking photos of stars without a tripod.
Certain phones like the Pixel Six let you take photos of the star with a certain astrophotography mode.
And essentially it's doing what night mode is doing, but for a much longer period of time, like two, three, sometimes even five minutes.
And what it really needs is the phone to be on a tripod.
If you're curious about what some of our favorite phones are for taking photos, or maybe just looking at other camera gear that might help you take some of these better photos, well, we have guides on wired.com.
And as Ramesh said, it's going to be really interesting to see how our cameras improve in the future, whether they'll completely decide on their own exactly what photo you should take, or if you'll have any control left.
Photo realism is dead.
No, that's dark.
Jesus.
I hope this video helped you understand a little bit more about night photography, and I hope you continue going out there taking lots and lots of photos.
[soft music] How the Disco Clam Uses Light to Fight Super-Strong Predators Architect Explains How Homes Could be 3D Printed on Mars and Earth Scientist Explains How Rare Genetics Allow Some to Sleep Only 4 Hours a Night Scientist Explains Unsinkable Metal That Could Prevent Disasters at Sea Is Invisibility Possible? An Inventor and a Physicist Explain Scientist Explains Why Her Lab Taught Rats to Drive Tiny Cars Mycologist Explains How a Slime Mold Can Solve Mazes How the Two-Hour Marathon Limit Was Broken Research Suggests Cats Like Their Owners as Much as Dogs Researcher Explains Deepfake Videos Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese Hurricane Hunter Explains How They Track and Predict Hurricanes Scientist Explains Viral Fish Cannon Video A Biohacker Explains Why He Turned His Leg Into a Hotspot Scientist Explains What Water Pooling in Kilauea's Volcanic Crater Means Bill Nye Explains the Science Behind Solar Sailing Vision Scientist Explains Why These Praying Mantises Are Wearing 3D Glasses Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology Scientist's Map Explains Climate Change Scientist Explains How Moon Mining Would Work Scientist Explains How She Captured Rare Footage of a Giant Squid Doctor Explains How Sunscreen Affects Your Body Stranger Things is Getting a New Mall! But Today Malls Are Dying. What Happened? The Limits of Human Endurance Might Be Our Guts Meet the First College Students to Launch a Rocket Into Space Scientist Explains Why Dogs Can Smell Better Than Robots A Harvard Professor Explains What the Avengers Can Teach Us About Philosophy NASA Twin Study: How Space Changes Our Bodies What the Black Hole Picture Means for Researchers Scientist Explains How to Levitate Objects With Sound Why Scientists and Artists Want The Blackest Substances on Earth Biologist Explains How Drones Catching Whale "Snot" Helps Research Researcher Explains Why Humans Can't Spot Real-Life Deepfake Masks Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About The Coronavirus VFX Artist Breaks Down This Year's Best Visual Effects Nominees How Doctors on Earth Treated a Blood Clot in Space Scientist Explains Why Some Cats Eat Human Corpses Voting Expert Explains How Voting Technology Will Impact the 2020 Election Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About Pandemics ER Doctor Explains How They're Handling Covid-19 Why This Taste Map Is Wrong Q&A: What's Next for the Coronavirus Pandemic? Why Captive Tigers Can’t Be Reintroduced to the Wild How Covid-19 Immunity Compares to Other Diseases 5 Mistakes to Avoid as We Try to Stop Covid-19 How This Emergency Ventilator Could Keep Covid-19 Patients Alive Why NASA Made a Helicopter for Mars Theoretical Physicist Breaks Down the Marvel Multiverse Former NASA Astronaut Explains Jeff Bezos's Space Flight Physics Student Breaks Down Gymnastics Physics What Do Cities Look Like Under a Microscope? Inside the Largest Bitcoin Mine in The U.S.
How Caffeine Has Fueled History How Mushroom Time-Lapses Are Filmed Why You’ll Fail the Milk Crate Challenge Why Vegan Cheese Doesn't Melt How 250 Cameras Filmed Neill Blomkamp's Demonic How Meme Detectives Stop NFT Fraud How Disney Designed a Robotic Spider-Man How Online Conspiracy Groups Compare to Cults Dune Costume Designers Break Down Dune’s Stillsuits Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' Why Scientists Are Stress Testing Tardigrades Every Prototype that Led to a Realistic Prosthetic Arm Why the Toilet Needs an Upgrade How Animals Are Evolving Because of Climate Change How Stop-Motion Movies Are Animated at Aardman Astronomer Explains How NASA Detects Asteroids Are We Living In A Simulation? Inside the Journey of a Shipping Container (And Why the Supply Chain Is So Backed Up) The Science of Slow Aging How Nose Swabs Detect New Covid-19 Strains Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes The Science Behind Elon Musk’s Neuralink Brain Chip Every Prototype to Make a Humanoid Robot Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work A Timeline of Russian Cyberattacks on Ukraine VFX Artist Breaks Down Oscar-Nominated CGI Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now We Invented the Perfect WIRED Autocomplete Glue How Everything Everywhere All at Once's Visual Effects Were Made How Dogs Coevolved with Humans How an Architect Redesigns NYC Streets Viking Expert Breaks Down The Northman Weapons J. Kenji López-Alt Breaks Down the Science of Stir-Fry How A.I. Is Changing Hollywood How Trash Goes From Garbage Cans to Landfills Veterinarian Explains How to Prevent Pet Separation Anxiety The Science Behind Genetically Modified Mosquitoes How Scientists & Filmmakers Brought Prehistoric Planet's Dinosaurs to Life All the Ways Google Gets Street View Images How Public Cameras Recognize and Track You How the Nuro Robotic Delivery Car Was Built Biologist Explains the Unexpected Origins of Feathers in Fashion Surgeons Break Down Separating Conjoined Twins Former Air Force Pilot Breaks Down UFO Footage Bug Expert Explains Why Cicadas Are So Loud The Best of CES 2021 Health Expert Explains What You Need to Know About Quarantines Scientist Explains How People Might Hibernate Like Bears Could a Chernobyl Level Nuclear Disaster Happen in the US? Neuroscientist Explains ASMR's Effects on the Brain & The Body Why Top Scientists Are Pretending an Asteroid is Headed for Earth Epidemiologist Answers Common Monkeypox Questions Bill Nye Breaks Down Webb Telescope Space Images How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Every Trick a Pro GeoGuessr Player Uses to Win How NASA Biologists Plan to Grow Plants on the Moon How FIFA Graphics & Gameplay Are Evolving (1993 - 2023) How a Vet Performs Dangerous Surgeries on Wild Animals This Heart is Not Human How Entomologists Use Insects to Solve Crimes Former NASA Astronaut Breaks Down a Rocket Launch Chess Pro Explains How to Spot Cheaters Why Billionaires Are Actually Ruining the Economy How to Keep Your New Year’s Resolutions for More Than a Week The Biology Behind The Last of Us English Teacher Grades Homework By ChatGPT All the Ways a Cold Plunge Affects the Body Spy Historian Debunks Chinese Spy Balloon Theories A.I. Tries 20 Jobs | WIRED Mathematician Breaks Down the Best Ways to Win the Lottery Why Music Festivals Sound Better Than Ever Pro Interpreters vs. AI Challenge: Who Translates Faster and Better? Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
