Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Tom Simonite Senior Editor Tom Simonite is a senior editor who edits WIRED’s business coverage. He previously covered artificial intelligence and once trained an artificial neural network to generate seascapes.
 Simonite was previously San Francisco bureau chief at MIT Technology Review , and wrote and edited technology coverage at New Scientist magazine in London. He lives in San Francisco, where he enjoys riding his bike and testing the reactions of self-driving cars.
X Business The WIRED Guide to Quantum Computing Business The WIRED Guide to Artificial Intelligence Backchannel The Search for a Pill That Can Help Dogs—and Humans—Live Longer Business As Elon Musk Walks, Twitter Workers Say No One’s in Charge Business Tension Inside Google Over a Fired AI Researcher’s Conduct Business Google Has a Plan to Stop Its New AI From Being Dirty and Rude Business How Starlink Scrambled to Keep Ukraine Online Business Europe’s New Law Will Force Secretive TikTok to Open Up Business Twitter Insiders Fear Elon Musk Heralds a Troll Takeover Business The Future of the Web Is Marketing Copy Generated by Algorithms Business The Race to Save Social Posts That May Prove Russian War Crimes Business TikTok’s Black Box Obscures Its Role in Russia’s War Business Deepfake Zelensky Was Quickly Defeated. The Next One May Not Be Business Ukraine’s Digital Ministry Is a Formidable War Machine Business Online Sleuths Are Using Face Recognition to ID Russian Soldiers Business This App Can Diagnose Rare Diseases From a Child's Face Business YouTube's Captions Insert Explicit Language in Kids' Videos Business Face Recognition Is Out. So How Will the IRS Verify Identity? Business It's Not Just the IRS—the US Government Wants Your Selfies Business Synthetic Voices Want to Take Over Audiobooks More Stories Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
