Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sam Altman fired as OpenAI CEO: the tech world reacts Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
On the heels of the abrupt announcement today from OpenAI that its board of directors had fired co-founder Sam Altman as CEO due to him allegedly being “not consistently candid in his communications with the board,” the tech world is reacting with a range of emotions to the news.
While many on X cracked jokes alluding to OpenAI’s rivalries with Google and other companies, others sought to praise Altman for his role co-founding and shepherding the generative AI company to a valuation nearing $90 billion according to recent reports, and making it the centerpiece of the current generative AI boom in Silicon Valley and beyond.
Here are some of the most notable reactions from leading figures in the tech industry: Sam Altman, co-founder and former CEO of OpenAI i loved my time at openai. it was transformative for me personally, and hopefully the world a little bit. most of all i loved working with such talented people.
will have more to say about what’s next later.
? Satya Nadella, Microsoft CEO As you saw at Microsoft Ignite this week, we're continuing to rapidly innovate for this era of AI, with over 100 announcements across the full tech stack – from AI systems, models, and tools in Azure, to Copilot. Most importantly, we're committed to delivering all of this to our… Eric Schmidt, former CEO of Google Sam Altman is a hero of mine. He built a company from nothing to $90 Billion in value, and changed our collective world forever. I can't wait to see what he does next. I, and billions of people, will benefit from his future work- it's going to be simply incredible. Thank you… Palmer Luckey, founder of Oculus VR and Anduril Board-run OpenAI is NGMI.
“As he gazed at it suddenly Sam understood, almost with a shock, that this stronghold had been built not to keep enemies out of Mordor, but to keep them in.” https://t.co/Sy3Fra0K09 "The majority of the board is independent, and the independent directors do not hold equity in OpenAI." This is crazy. Imagine being fired from your own company by people who have ZERO skin in the game! https://t.co/PLYGnU3GZu Slava Akhmechet, Microsoft Engineer Fun story about @sama.
 When my startup was falling apart I was an aspie nerd who didn’t care about money and didn’t understand normies who do. So I totally misread the situation, fucked up communication, and our investors thought I fucked them to get a yacht and a gold watch or… Eliezer Yudkowsky, senior research fellow, Machine Intelligence Research Institute Mira Murati reached out to me in 2022 for a one-hour zoom call. Sam Altman never essayed any such contact. Also, I don't think Murati has made any jokes about how funny it would be if the world ended. I'm tentatively 8.5% more cheerful about OpenAI going forward.
X (formerly Twitter) company account https://t.co/YXLisClgZh leaving this here in case anyone needs a job VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
