Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Andy Greenberg Security Stealthy Russian Hacker Group Resurfaces With Clever New Tricks Photograph: YURI KADOBNOV/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save In the notorious 2016 breach of the Democratic National Committee, the group of Russian hackers known as Fancy Bear stole the show, leaking the emails and documents they had obtained in a brazen campaign to sway the results of the US presidential election. But another, far quieter band of Kremlin hackers was inside DNC networks as well. In the three years since, that second group has largely gone dark—until security researchers spotted them in the midst of another spy campaign, one that continued undetected for as long as six years.
Researchers at the Slovakian cybersecurity firm ESET today released new findings that reveal a years-long espionage campaign by a group of Kremlin-sponsored hackers that ESET refers to as the Dukes. They're also known known by the names Cozy Bear and APT29, and have been linked to Russia's Foreign Intelligence Service, or SVR. ESET found that the Dukes had penetrated the networks of at least three targets: the ministries of foreign affairs at two Eastern European countries and one European Union nation, including the network of that EU country's embassy in Washington, DC. ESET declined to reveal the identities of those victims in more detail, and note that there may well be more targets than those they've uncovered.
The researchers found that the spying campaign extend both years before the DNC hack and years after—until as recently as June of this year—and used an entirely new collection of malware tools, some of which deployed novel tricks to avoid detection. "They rebuilt their arsenal," says ESET researcher Matthieu Faou, who presented the new findings earlier this week at ESET's research conference in Bratislava, Slovakia. "They never stopped their espionage activity." The Dukes haven't been entirely off the radar since they were spotted inside the DNC in June of 2016. Later that year and in 2017, phishing emails believed to have been sent by to the group hit a collection of US think tanks and nongovernmental organizations , as well as the Norwegian and Dutch governments.
 It's not clear if any of those probes resulted in successful penetrations. Also, around a year ago, security firm FireEye attributed another widespread wave of phishing attacks to the Dukes , though ESET points out those emails delivered only publicly available malware, making any definitive link to the group tough to prove.
By contrast, the newly revealed set of intrusions—which ESET has named Ghost Hunt—managed to plant at least three new espionage tools inside target networks. It also leveraged a previously known back door, called MiniDuke, that helped ESET link the broader spy campaign with the Dukes despite the group's recent disappearance. "They went dark and we didn’t have a lot of information," says Faou. "But over the last year and a half, we analyzed several pieces of malware, families that were initially not linked. A few months ago, we realized it was the Dukes." In fact, one of the intrusions that included MiniDuke began in 2013, before the malware had been publicly identified—a strong indicator that the Dukes perpetrated the breach rather than someone else who picked up the malware from another source.
The Dukes' new tools use clever tricks to hide themselves and their communications inside a victim's network. They include a back door called FatDuke, named for its size; the malware fills an unusual 13 megabytes, thanks to about 12MB of obfuscating code designed to help it avoid detection. To conceal its communications with a command-and-control server, FatDuke impersonates the user's browser, even mimicking the user agent for the browser that it finds on the victim's system.
The new tools also include lighter-weight implant malware ESET has named PolyglotDuke and RegDuke, each of which serves as a first-stage program capable of installing other software on a target system. Both tools have unusual means of hiding their tracks. PolyglotDuke fetches the domain of its command-and-control server from its controller's posts on Twitter, Reddit, Imgur, and other social media. And those posts can encode the domain in any of three types of written characters—hence the malware's name—Japanese katakana characters, Cherokee script, or the Kangxi radicals that serve as components of Chinese characters.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker One example of the posts on Twitter and other social media that the Dukes’ malware used to locate its command-and-control servers. Here the domain is encoded in Cherokee script.
Courtesy of ESET The Dukes' RegDuke implant uses a different obfuscation trick, planting a fileless back door in a target computer's memory. That back door then communicates to a Dropbox account used as its command-and-control, hiding its messages using a steganography technique that invisibly alters pixels in images like the ones shown below to embed secret information.
Two examples of the images the Dukes’ malware altered and transmitted to hide its secret communications.
Courtesy of ESET Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker All of those stealth measures help to explain how the group remained undetected in these long-running intrusions for years on end, says ESET's Faou. "They were really careful, especially with network communications." The Dukes haven't always been as successful at hiding their identity as they have been masking their intrusions. The Dutch newspaper Volksrant revealed early last year that the Dutch intelligence service AIVD compromised computers and even surveillance cameras in a Moscow-based university building the hackers were using in 2014. As a result, the Dutch spies were able to watch over the hackers' shoulders as they carried out their intrusions, and even identify everyone going into and coming out of the room where they worked. That operation led the Dutch agency to definitively identify the Dukes as agents of Russia's SVR agency, and allowed the Dutch to warn US officials of an attack in progress on the US State Department ahead of the DNC hack, alerting the US government just 24 hours after the intrusion began.
But ESET's findings show how a group like the Dukes can have a moment in the spotlight—or even under a surveillance camera—and nonetheless maintain the secrecy of some of their espionage activities for years. Just because a hacker group appears to go dark after a moment of public notoriety, in other words, doesn't mean it's not still working quietly in the shadows.
WIRED25: Stories of people who are racing to save us Massive, AI-powered robots are 3D-printing entire rockets Ripper —the inside story of the egregiously bad videogame USB-C has finally come into its own Planting tiny spy chips in hardware can cost as little as $200 👁 Prepare for the deepfake era of video ; plus, check out the latest news on AI 🏃🏽‍♀️ Want the best tools to get healthy? Check out our Gear team’s picks for the best fitness trackers , running gear (including shoes and socks ), and best headphones.
Senior Writer X Topics Russia hacking Lily Hay Newman Andy Greenberg Dell Cameron Andy Greenberg Dell Cameron Kate O'Flaherty Lily Hay Newman Dell Cameron Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
