Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Tom Simonite Gregory Barber Business It's Hard to Ban Facial Recognition Tech in the iPhone Era Photograph: Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Ethics Face recognition Regulation Company Apple End User Government Sector Public safety Source Data Images Technology Machine vision After San Francisco in May placed new controls, including a ban on facial recognition , on municipal surveillance, city employees began taking stock of what technology agencies already owned. They quickly learned that the city owned a lot of facial recognition technology —much of it in workers’ pockets.
City-issued iPhones equipped with Apple’s signature unlock feature, Face ID , were now illegal—even if the feature was turned off, says Lee Hepner, an aide to supervisor Aaron Peskin, the member of the local Board of Supervisors who spearheaded the ban.
Around the same time, police department staffers scurried to disable a facial recognition system for searching mug shots that was unknown to the public or Peskin’s office. The department called South Carolina’s DataWorks Plus and asked it to disable facial recognition software the city had acquired from the company, according to company vice president Todd Pastorini. Police in New York and Los Angeles use the same DataWorks software to search mug shot databases using photos of faces gathered from surveillance video and other sources.
The two incidents underscore how efforts to regulate facial recognition—enacted by a handful of cities and under consideration in Washington —will prove tricky given its many uses and how common it has become in consumer devices as well as surveillance systems. The technology, criticized as insufficiently accurate, particularly for people of color , is cheaper than ever and is becoming a standard feature of police departments.
After SF's ban, nearby Oakland and Somerville, Massachusetts, adopted similar rules. As other cities join the movement, some are moving more carefully and exempting iPhones. A facial recognition ban passed by Brookline, Massachusetts, last week includes exemptions for personal devices used by city officials, out of concerns about both Face ID and tagging features on Facebook. The city of Alameda, in San Francisco Bay, is considering similar language in its own surveillance bill, which is modeled on San Francisco’s trend-setting legislation. “Each city is going to do it in their own way,” says Matt Cagle, an attorney at the ACLU of Northern California who has been working with cities considering bans. “There are going to be some devices that have [facial recognition] built in and they’re trying to figure out how to deal with that.” On Tuesday, San Francisco supervisors voted to amend their law to allow the use of iPhones with Face ID. The amendments allow municipal agencies to obtain products with facial recognition features—including iPhones—so long as other features are deemed critically necessary and there are no viable alternatives. The ban on using facial recognition still applies. City workers are blocked from using Face ID, and must tap in passcodes.
When the surveillance law and facial recognition ban were proposed in late January, San Francisco police officials told Ars Technica that the department stopped testing facial recognition in 2017. The department didn’t publicly mention that it had contracted with DataWorks that same year to maintain a mug shot database and facial recognition software as well as a facial recognition server through summer 2020, nor did the department reveal that it was exploring an upgrade to the system.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker WIRED learned details of the contract, and of the 2019 testing, through a public records request.
OneZero previously published an email from DataWorks that claimed SFPD as a customer.
Records from the San Francisco Police Department related to facial recognition systems.
The documents WIRED obtained included an internal police department email—sent on the same day in January that the San Francisco ban was proposed—mentioning tests of a new facial recognition “engine.” Asked about the tests, department spokesperson Michael Andraychak acknowledged that SFPD had started a 90-day pilot of a new facial recognition engine in January, but said access to it was disabled after the trial ended. After the law banning facial recognition took effect in July, he said, SFPD “dismantled the facial recognition servers connected with DataWorks.” Prior to that, SFPD appears to have been in a position to use facial recognition relatively easily, and without public knowledge. That was news to Brian Hofer, a lawyer and privacy activist who helped draft the SF ban and similar ordinances passed in nearby Berkeley and Oakland. He says the fact it escaped public knowledge shows the need to restrict acquisition of surveillance technology, because departments can obtain the systems without the public’s knowledge. “That’s one of the reasons why we’ve been pushing these ordinances everywhere,” he adds.
San Francisco's ordinance allows the sheriff and district attorney to ask the Board of Supervisors for exceptions from the facial recognition ban. The iPhone-related amendments could make it easier for city agencies to purchase surveillance systems equipped with facial recognition, provided other features are justified as critically necessary and without alternatives. That might raise hackles from some privacy advocates, but the ACLU’s Cagle says the important thing is that the ban on using facial recognition is maintained. “San Francisco is working to future-proof the ban and strengthen it,” he says.
Instagram, my daughter, and me Tweak these Google Chrome settings to level up your browsing Welcome to Rachel, Nevada— the town closest to Area 51 The Irishman gets de-aging right— no tracking dots necessary Ewoks are the most tactically advanced fighting force in Star Wars 👁 Will AI as a field "hit the wall" soon ? Plus, the latest news on artificial intelligence 🎧 Things not sounding right? Check out our favorite wireless headphones , soundbars , and Bluetooth speakers Senior Editor X Staff Writer X Topics face recognition artificial intelligence iPhone San Francisco Reece Rogers Will Knight Dell Cameron Amanda Hoover Will Knight Christopher Beam Amanda Hoover Amanda Hoover Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
