Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon’s Alexa can now learn your voice automatically Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon today announced that AI assistant Alexa will now automatically begin work to recognize a user’s voice when they say “Alexa, play music.” Automatic voice identification that occurs when saying this phrase will serve up personalized selections from Amazon Music. Automated voice ID can be disabled using the Settings section of the Alexa app.
Setting up an Alexa voice profile allows users to receive personalized results when playing music, sending messages, and allows users to complete shopping transactions without the need to enter a four-digit pin code. Automatic voice recognition when using the “Alexa, play music” command is limited to personalized songs from Amazon Music.
The ability to teach Alexa to recognize your voice so you can receive personalized results was first announced in October , and since then Amazon has been trying to make it easier for people to create unique voice profiles. Creating a voice profile used to require use of the Alexa app, but voice profile creation with an Echo speaker was first introduced in February.
The previous procedure for creating a voice profile required a person to say 10 unique phrases. An Amazon spokesperson declined to provide additional details about the number of recorded interactions necessary to train Alexa to recognize a voice.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! In addition to personalization for music and the like, work is also underway by Amazon’s team to better understand a person’s emotional state when speaking to Alexa, knowledge that could lead to additional personalized experiences in the future.
In related news, developers can now add up to eight unique humanlike voices from AWS Polly that sound different than Alexa, and earlier this month in-skill purchases for voice apps were introduced so that third-party developers and businesses can accept payment from millions of Alexa users in the U.S.
Amazon’s Alexa is able to recognize up to 10 voices per household.
Update 1:54 p.m. to include additional comment from an Amazon spokesperson.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
