Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Baidu COO Qi Lu steps down, AI chief now reports directly to CEO Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Baidu COO Qi Lu speaks at the company's keynote during the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas on January 8, 2018.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Baidu today announced that COO Qi Lu will step down in July for personal and family reasons. Lu had been brought aboard to help the Chinese search giant become more centrally focused on AI services.
Since he joined Baidu, the company has launched a smart speaker, its Duer virtual assistant , and a $1.5 billion fund to grow its Apollo autonomous driving division.
Lu will continue to serve as vice chairman of the Baidu board of directors, a company spokesperson told VentureBeat in an email. He joined Baidu in 2017 after nearly a decade at Microsoft, where he acted as head of search, helped create AI assistant Cortana , and worked closely with CEO Satya Nadella.
“With Baidu’s strategy to transform into an AI-first company firmly in place, we are well positioned to continue the momentum that we have built in the past year,” CEO Robin Li said in a statement shared with VentureBeat.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Lu’s exit follows the departure of a pair of prominent Baidu executives from its AI initiatives. Chief scientist Andrew Ng left last year, and Baidu Research AI Lab director Adam Coates followed last fall.
As part of a consolidation of its various AI products in the wake on Ng’s departure, Haifeng Wang was named general manager of the AI Group and reported directly to Lu.
In the absence of a COO, Wang and other senior executives will now report directly to Li, a company spokesperson told VentureBeat.
Wang oversees the company’s efforts in areas like machine learning, computer vision, natural language processing, speech technology, knowledge graph, robotics, and augmented reality.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
