Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Prospera raises $7 million for A.I.-based farming Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Prospera has raised $7 million for smart farming.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Prospera has raised $7 million for smart agriculture tools for farmers. The funding led by Bessemer Venture Partners will be used to bring Prospera’s artificial intelligence-based solutions to more farmers worldwide.
Tel Aviv, Israel-based Prospera is a precision agriculture company that uses computer vision, deep learning, and agtech to figure out exactly how much water to deliver to plants in particular locations so as to improve crop yields while conserving resources.
Prospera taps data science to turn farming from an intuition-based practice to an optmized data science.
With in-field cameras and climatic sensors, Prospera said it offers accurate remote agronomy and management solutions to farmers around the world. These solutions empower farmers with real-time analysis of what is happening to their crops on a leaf-by-leaf basis or a multi-field, multi-crop basis. This allows farmers to tackle critical issues plaguing underperforming fields, including pests, disease, irrigation problems, nutrient deficiencies, and suboptimal agro-technical activities.
“The agriculture industry is a great candidate for applying pragmatic A.I. Prospera is aiming to lead the way to making agriculture intelligent and efficient with technology by solving the key pain points of growers globally,” said Daniel Koppel, CEO and cofounder of Prospera, in a statement. “Recent breakthroughs in neural networks, combined with the commoditization of cloud computing and sensors, have made it possible for us to develop field-analytics solutions that predict and improve performance in a new and revolutionary way.” Already operational in medium to large greenhouse farms across Europe, North America, and Israel, Prospera’s technology is being used by farms that supply some of the largest grocery retailers in Europe and the U.S., including Walmart, Tesco, Sainsbury’s, and Aldi.
“Prospera is generating unique and proprietary data on crops at a level of granularity which never before existed in the agriculture world. Combining this unique data with some of the best experts in computer vision, and machine learning has the potential to revolutionize the way we grow food” said Adam Fisher, at Bessemer Venture Partners, in a statement. “As investments in AgTech are anticipated to continue rising this year, we are pleased to be working with this unique company that is optimizing crop yields based on proximal imaging and deep learning technology.” Founded in 2014 by computer scientists, Prospera is an agtech data and analytics firm that enables farmers to optimize crop yields and grow their businesses.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
