Toggle Navigation News Events TNW Conference 2024 June 20 & 21, 2024 TNW Vision: 2024 All events Spaces Programs Newsletters Partner with us Jobs Contact News news news news Latest Deep tech Sustainability Ecosystems Data and security Fintech and ecommerce Future of work More Startups and technology Investors and funding Government and policy Corporates and innovation Gadgets & apps Early bird Business passes are 90% SOLD OUT 🎟️ Buy now before they are gone → This article was published on September 25, 2018 Artificial Intelligence Google is using AI to issue flood warnings in India Google is now issuing flood warnings using AI to detect and issue flood warnings – starting in India – to help people prepare better for the situation. The company issued its first alert last month in the state of Bihar in India where it’s partnered with the country’s Central Water Commission.
Google issues these warnings through what it calls Google Public Alert – a system for notifying its users in emergency situations like a flood – integrated into Google Search, Google Maps and Google Now The company says that 250 million people are affected by floods each year, with India accounting for 20 percent of flood-related fatalities.
In order to prevent that, Google is training its AI model with the data of historical events as well as river level readings, the terrain, and elevation of a specific area. Through this model, it creates a map and runs multiple simulations to create a forecasting model which can accurately predict the location, timing, and severity of a possible flood event.
Last year, Google started issuing SOS alerts in Google Search and Google Maps to provide information like phone numbers and websites to users during a crisis. Meanwhile, Facebook has a ‘Mark as safe’ option for natural calamities. Hopefully, with the advancement of such tools, people can stay safe through these disasters.
Story by Ivan Mehta Ivan covers Big Tech, India, policy, AI, security, platforms, and apps for TNW. That's one heck of a mixed bag. He likes to say "Bleh." Ivan covers Big Tech, India, policy, AI, security, platforms, and apps for TNW. That's one heck of a mixed bag. He likes to say "Bleh." Get the TNW newsletter Get the most important tech news in your inbox each week.
Also tagged with Google Story by Ivan Mehta Popular articles 1 UK won’t regulate AI anytime soon, minister says 2 World-first CRISPR gene-editing therapy approved in UK 3 AI is transforming the English dictionary 4 This new EV supercharger on wheels recharges in just 6 minutes 5 VP of UK’s top generative AI firm resigns over ‘fair use’ controversy Related Articles deep tech Google releases Bard to the world – but leaves the EU behind deep tech Google DeepMind unveils AI watermarking tool as political pressure mounts Join TNW All Access Watch videos of our inspiring talks for free → data security How online safety tech is failing women fintech ecommerce EU’s new digital market rules target Meta, Google, 4 more tech giants The heart of tech More TNW Media Events Programs Spaces Newsletters Jobs in tech About TNW Partner with us Jobs Terms & Conditions Cookie Statement Privacy Statement Editorial Policy Masthead Copyright © 2006—2023, The Next Web B.V. Made with <3 in Amsterdam.
