Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple tests predictive keyboard that taps AI to read whole documents Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Apple doesn’t generally let its employees blog, but its Machine Learning Journal is an exception, spotlighting the quiet labors and current projects of its ML research teams. The latest entry previews potential future improvements to Apple’s QuickType predictive keyboard, based on a major challenge: teaching a machine to use all of a document’s content to guess what word someone will type next.
Currently, the predictive keyboard uses a combination of narrow, local context and your typing input to guess what’s coming next. For example, if you started typing a word beginning with “L” between “I” and “you,” it might reasonably guess “love.” Apple’s Frameworks Natural Language Processing Team notes that additional context — “global semantic context” — can yield better results. Looking at the entirety of a document to figure out what’s being said might increase the likelihood that “love” has nothing to do with the document and that the typist might be adding the words “listen to” instead.
Actually pulling off full-document processing isn’t easy, though, and Apple’s exploring deep learning via neural networks as a potential solution. A prototype system can look at all the context to the left and right of a given word, analyzing and scoring each portion of the text for potential relevance. It uses machine training catalogs of 10 million to 5 billion words, though researchers found that the smallest catalog worked as well as the largest for this purpose.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The project is currently uncompleted, as Apple needs to continue teaching its machines to learn how to process words and phrases within the larger global context, but it’s making progress. Going forward, Apple expects that both local and global context will be used in predicting text input — and if it succeeds, machines could become much better at guessing our next thoughts from what we’ve already said.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
