Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Element AI launches enterprise decision-making automation tools Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Element AI , a company cofounded more than two years ago by deep learning expert Yoshua Bengio, is rolling out its first publicly available products for enterprise customers today.
The AI Enablement Tools and Insight Libraries help automate document reading and processing for various industries using computer vision, optical character recognition (OCR), and other techniques. Element AI products will be used to do things like enable port workers to make predictions about operations, help workers answer questions about internal operations using natural language, and assist cybersecurity analysts at the National Bank of Canada in the assessment and prioritization of potential threats to its online systems.
Element intends to create both systems that can be tailored to assist with decision-making processes in specific industries but also generic AI that works out of the box for people across several industries. AI for transportation and logistics workers are in the pipeline.
High level learnings from use of Element AI’s tools are shared across tools and industries, so that systems made for an insurance underwriter to automate document processing can be used for banks processing loans or in other industries.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “You’ve got a lot of toolboxes out there that are generic. Our nut to crack is how to build an agent that understands claims in a generic way and then can be used across the board and learn how to interact with the underwriter and the fraud analyst etc,” Element AI CEO Jean-François Gagné told VentureBeat in a phone interview.
Element argues its AI is unique because it controls the entire software stack and is supported by a team of about 80 research scientists who focus on key machine learning challenges like causality learning, few-shot learning, and transfer learning.
“Owning every piece of the stack really gives us a huge advantage in terms of performance, but it’s still a long journey ahead. Let’s be honest: We’re early on in terms of delivering on all the promises of the vision of making true adaptive systems, but we’re pretty proud of the progress we’ve made in just a few years,” Gagné said.
Like Andrew Ng’s Landing AI , one of Element’s key pitches to businesses is its ability to deploy advanced AI using small amounts of data.
This is made possible in part through the use of synthetic data. For example, computer vision deployed by its document-processing AI uses transfer learning so a synthetic receipt more closely matches the characteristics of a receipt that’s been crumpled up and shoved in a person’s pocket in the real world.
Style transfer can be used to mimic artistic styles or create deepfakes, but it can also make businesses more robust and agile, Gagné argues.
“We hear a lot about fake news, which is like the downside, but there’s a humongous value in fake data. The ability to create high fidelity events and simulate them with lots of context is strengthening the ability to use advanced systems in a very small data environment,” he said.
Later generations of Element AI’s enterprise automation tools will incorporate features like how to detect and address bias found in AI models.
“Right now we don’t have necessarily all the reports that make the analysis of bias and all the different important things that we need to have in place to properly manage this, so it relies on data scientists for the moment,” he said.
Element AI was founded in October 2016 and raised a $102 million funding round in June 2017.
 The company is based in Montreal with offices in Singapore, London, South Korea, and Toronto.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
