Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple joins Amazon, Google, Facebook in ‘Partnership on AI’ research project Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
An AI research group backed by some of the biggest names in tech announced today that another giant was joining its project.
Partnership on AI wrote in a blog post that Apple would become a founding member. Apple will now work alongside original founding members Amazon, DeepMind/Google, Facebook, IBM, and Microsoft in a high-profile display of cooperation among companies that can often be heated rivals.
“Diversity of thought across the organization is crucial to ensure that we effectively explore and address the influences of AI on people and society, provide guidance on AI best practices, and seek to advance the public’s understanding of AI,” says the blog post. “We are committed to having balanced representation at the leadership, executive, and operations levels.” The original members announced the formation of the group last September with the goal of ensuring that AI research doesn’t go completely haywire and wipe out humanity. Or, as they put it, to “address opportunities and challenges with AI technologies to benefit people and society.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Members of the group have agreed to collaborate to establish best practices and publish their research under an open license. The group said Apple has been working with the other companies from the start but is now making its membership official.
Apple will be represented on the partnership’s board by Tom Gruber, head of advanced development for Siri. Gruber was a cofounder of Siri, which was acquired by Apple in 2010.
In addition, the partnership announced other members of its first board: Dario Amodei of OpenAi, the Elon Musk-backed research group Subbarao Kambhampati of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence Deirdre Mulligan of the University of California at Berkeley Carol Rose of the American Civil Liberties Union Eric Sears of the MacArthur Foundation Jason Furman of the Peterson Institute of International Economics Of the founding members, board members include: Greg Corrado of Google/DeepMind Ralf Herbrich of Amazon Eric Horvitz of Microsoft Yann Lecun of Facebook Francesca Rossi of IBM The first board meeting is scheduled for February 3 in San Francisco.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
