Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Fast.ai launches fastai v1, a deep learning library for PyTorch Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Style reversion, a neural net style transfer technique developed by Miguel Perez Michaus using fast Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Fast.ai today announced the full 1.0 release of fastai , a free, open source deep learning library that runs on top of Facebook’s PyTorch framework.
The project has been under development for 18 months and launches the same day as PyTorch 1.0, which includes deeper integrations with Caffe2, ONNX, and a series of integrations with cloud providers like Google Cloud and Azure Machine Learning as well as hardware providers like Intel and Qualcomm.
“Fastai is the first deep learning library to provide a single consistent interface to all the most commonly used deep learning applications for vision, text, tabular data, time series, and collaborative filtering. This is important for practitioners, because it means if you’ve learnt to create practical computer vision models with fastai, then you can use the same approach to create natural language processing (NLP) models, or any of the other types of model we support,” Fast.ai cofounder Jeremy Howard said in a Medium post today.
In addition to being utilized by researchers and developers alike, fastai includes recent advances by the Fast.ai team that allowed them to train Imagenet in less than 30 minutes.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The first version of fastai was released in September 2017 and has since been used to do things like carry out transfer learning with computer vision, execute art projects like style reversion , and create Clara, a neural net made by an OpenAI research fellow that generates music.
Fastai v1 can work with preinstalled datasets on Google Cloud; it also works with AWS SageMaker and with pre-configured environments with the AWS Deep Learning AMIs.
Fastai is free to use with GitHub , conda, and pip, with support for AWS coming soon.
Fast.ai seeks to democratize access to deep learning with tutorials, tools, and state of the art AI models. More than 200,000 people have taken Fast.ai’s seven-week course Practical Deep Learning for Coders.
To learn more about fastai 1.0, visit the fastai documentation page or listen to the latest episode of the podcast This Week in Machine Learning & AI.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
