Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook appeals U.K. group’s $644,000 fine over Cambridge Analytica Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Facebook cofounder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg appears at the company's F8 developer conference in San Jose on April 18, 2017.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
After Facebook received a $644,000 (£500,000) from U.K. watchdog body over its failure to keep data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica from improperly accessing user data, the company today filed a motion to appeal the fine. The BBC first reported on the news.
Facebook is appealing the fine on the grounds that an investigation from the Information Commissioner’s Office did not find any evidence that Cambridge Analytica improperly utilized the user data when targeting ads in the lead-up to the 2016 Brexit referendum.
Facebook initially estimated in March that the personal data from up to 1.1 million U.K citizens could have been accessed by Cambridge Analytica. That’s when the news broke that Facebook had failed to stop Cambridge Analytica — which claimed to work with the Leave.EU group, then retracted that claim — from getting access to user data obtained through a personality quiz and not getting their consent to use it for ad targeting.
“The ICO’s investigation stemmed from concerns that UK citizens’ data may have been impacted by Cambridge Analytica, yet they now have confirmed that they have found no evidence to suggest that information of Facebook users in the UK was ever shared by Dr Kogan with Cambridge Analytica, or used by its affiliates in the Brexit referendum,” a statement provided to the BBC from Facebook’s lawyer Anna Benckert read.
“Therefore, the core of the ICO’s argument no longer relates to the events involving Cambridge Analytica. Instead, their reasoning challenges some of the basic principles of how people should be allowed to share information online, with implications which go far beyond just Facebook, which is why we have chosen to appeal.” However, the report did argue that Facebook was still subject to a fine because it “failed to take appropriate technical and organizational measures against unauthorised or unlawful processing of personal data,” and that U.K. residents were put at risk by Facebook’s carelessness.
The £500,000 fine was the maximum fine that the ICO could levy at the time. However, under the new GDPR rules, Facebook could have been fined up to 4 percent of Facebook’s global turnover.
VentureBeat has reached out to Facebook for more details, and will update this story if we hear back.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
