Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Cloud names Andrew Moore its new head of AI Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Google Cloud today announced that Andrew Moore, dean of the Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science, will lead its AI efforts in the future. Moore takes over the role of Google Cloud’s AI chief scientist from Dr. Fei-Fei Li, a Stanford University professor who has occupied the role since 2016.
Moore, who announced plans to leave Carnegie Mellon in late August , had been at the university since 2000. He previously worked for Google from 2006 to 2014, during which time he helped establish Google’s Pittsburgh research center, where Moore will be based, according to a Google Cloud blog post by CEO Diane Greene.
Li will continue to act as an advisor to Google Cloud upon her return to Stanford University, where she is director of the Stanford AI Lab (SAIL), which explores a number of areas of research important to the advancement of AI such as natural language processing, computer vision, robotics, and deep learning.
Above: Google Cloud chief scientist Fei-Fei Li (left) speaks with former White House CTO Megan Smith (center) and Foundation Capital partner Joanne Chen (right) about the democratization of AI at SXSW in Austin, Texas on March 13, 2018.
During her time at Google Cloud, a number of AI services were rolled out and initiatives undertaken, including the launch of AutoML to automate the creation of machine intelligence. There was also controversial work with the Department of Defense’s Project Maven to improve drone object recognition. In June, Google announced plans to end its Maven contract, and CEO Sundar Pichai declared Google would not use its technology to create autonomous weaponry.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Li also advocated for AI that benefits humanity and founded AI4All, a nonprofit organization focused on connecting young people from demographics underrepresented in AI with people at research universities and tech companies.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
