Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages With $11M in funding, Tidemark launches cloud-based enterprise performance manage apps Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Tidemark is coming out of stealth today and launching its enterprise performance management apps for the cloud. That means the company is creating applications that can decipher a ton of enterprise data and extract information that is critical for managers to judge the performance of the business.
The applications can run in the cloud, or web-connected data centers, so that employees can access them from anywhere and use them to make better-informed decisions when running the business. The applications deliver information for managers in real-time with risk-adjusted metrics. It is useful for strategists, financial executives, operations planners, and forecasters. It helps businesses model their profit outlooks and otherwise make use of a treasure trove of company data.
Redwood City, Calif.-based Tidemark is also disclosing today that it has raised $11 million in two rounds of funding. Investors include Greylock Partners, Andreessen Horowitz and Dave Duffield, co-founder and co-CEO of Workday and founder of PeopleSoft. Peter Currie, president of Currie Capital, and Phil Wilmington, former co-president of PeopleSoft and CEO of OutlookSoft, have joined Tidemark’s board of directors. Tidemark was previously known as Proferi.
The company is seizing an opportunity because the world of business intelligence hasn’t kept up with the advances in the cloud, said Christian Gheorghe, chief executive of Tidemark, in an interview.
Gheorghe said that business intelligence applications run on enterprise platforms and often can only be accessed with work computers. But managers need to access the data 24 hours a day, and too often the data analytics are delivered to late to be actionable. Tidemark’s applications enable enterprises to extrack immediate information for decision-making from large amounts of comlex and dynamic data — at a cost that is lower than existing solutions.
“This means that businesses no longer have to be reactive when it comes to data,” Gheorghe said. “A new type of app is needed in this day and age.” Businesses have to be able to react to real-time data, such as opinions about a company that come in live via Twitter or Facebook updates. Legacy apps can’t handle that kind of volatile business environment, Gheorghe said.
The company aims to disrupt the likes of Oracle, SAP and other companies that make enterprise applications. Tidemark’s three major applications include Metrics Management and Management Reporting, which suggests what managers should do about real-time data reports. It also includes Enterprise Planning, aimed at strategic, financial and operational planners. It helps managers create budgets, forecasts and analysis. And it is launching Profitability Modeling, which lets users produce full profit-and-loss documents. All of the apps are accessible via the cloud and use an HTML5 web format interface.
The company says it has had great success with early customers such as Acosta Sales & Marketing. Tidemark is also partnering with web-based services companies SnapLogic, Cloudera, and VMware. The service will be based on a pay-as-you-go basis. The company has 30 employees.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
