Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cloud enterprise app maker Tidemark grabs $24M from Redpoint, Greylock, Andreessen Horowitz Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Enterprise performance management company Tidemark has raised $24 million in its third round of funding. The company makes cloud-based apps that help businesses interpret and act on real-time data.
Tidemark made our list of 10 disruptive cloud companies we’re exited about because it helps enterprises with the important task of cloud-based data management and analysis. Its HTML5 apps help decipher critical enterprise data and extract information that can help managers, strategists and operations planners judge business performance and overall health.
“The world’s largest enterprises are demanding an analytics solution truly built for the cloud,” said Christian Gheorghe, founder and CEO of Tidemark, in a statement. “With this capital, Tidemark will continue to expand its core technology, products and go-to-market capability to deliver innovation and customer success in analytics.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The funding round was led by Redpoint Ventures.
 Existing investors Greylock Partners, Andreessen Horowitz and Dave Duffield, co-CEO of Workday, also participated in the round. Redpoint founding partner Geoff Yang will join Tidemark’s board of directors.
“The next-generation of enterprise applications combine social, mobile, analytics and big data,” Yang said, in a statement. “Tidemark is at the nexus of all of these trends and Redpoint is extremely pleased to make this investment. We look forward to a long-term successful relationship in helping to build the company.” Redwood City, Calif.-based Tidemark came out of stealth mode in October 2011 when it announced an $11 million funding round.
 It now has $35 million in total funding and has “aggressive plans” to target more Fortune 1000 companies with its apps.
You can watch a video outlining Tidemark’s enterprise data management applications below: VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
