Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Event The Women in AI Breakfast is a go, and nominations for the Women in AI Awards now open Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Women leaders are increasingly at the center of AI innovation, and they’ll be in the spotlight at this year’s Women in AI Breakfast and Women in AI Awards as part of Transform 2022. VentureBeat is committed to shining a light on the glaring gender equity gap in the data and AI workforce – but more importantly, to offer a platform for women leaders in the industry as they work to eliminate that gap, and create an inclusive community.
We’re proud to host the fourth annual Women in AI Breakfast on July 19, live and in color at the San Francisco venue. It will be a closed-door space for in-depth discussion, high-level networking, and serious breakfasting. We’re also pleased to announce the fourth annual Women in AI Awards , which recognizes the accomplishments of the women in the AI industry.
Women in AI Breakfast This year’s Women in AI Breakfast returns live! Be sure to sign up now to join us on July 19.
The panel discussion, “How Women in Data & AI Fields Lead to Greater Diversity in Workforces and Applications,” will feature Ya Xu, the VP of Engineering and Head of Data at LinkedIn, JoAnn Stonier, Chief Data Officer at Mastercard, and more.
Our panelists will delve into AI’s unconscious bias, and how the gender gap in data and AI-centric fields can make or break how applications are developed. They’ll explore the way bias affects everything from financing and health care, to who’s encouraged to pursue STEM education and enter tech fields. And they’ll talk about how increasing the number of women and BIPOC individuals at every level can shine a light on that bias, help conquer it, and improve diversity of all kinds – the ultimate goal.
Register now ! Women in AI Awards And then once again, VentureBeat will help honor the extraordinary women leaders across the AI industry with the Women in AI Awards.
 Candidates can be nominated in one of five categories: Responsibility & Ethics of AI AI Entrepreneur AI Research AI Mentorship Rising Star.
Winners are selected based on their commitment to the industry, their work to increase inclusivity in the field, and their positive influence in the community.
Learn more about the nomination process here , and submit your nominations here by Thursday, June 30, 2022. We are still finalizing the date and time for the 2022 Women in AI Awards presentation — stay tuned! And don’t forget to register for Transform, the leading event on applied AI for enterprise business and technology decision-makers of every stripe. Join us for two full weeks, both live in San Francisco and virtually.
Register now! July 19: The Data & AI Executive Summit | The Palace Hotel, San Francisco, CA July 20-22: The Data Week | Virtual Event July 26-28: The AI & Edge Week | Virtual Event The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
