Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Community Quantum computing promises to solve data center energy drain Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Data centers represent a massive drain on our world’s energy resources and are a major source of greenhouse gas emissions. These computing hubs produce 200 million tons of CO 2 annually and consume 2% of electricity worldwide, according to Accenture , which projects that figure will reach 8% by 2030.
Aspen Global Change Institute adds that some of the world’s largest data centers use more than 100MW of power — enough to power about 80,000 U.S. households.
The data center as an energy drain became a hot topic in tech and political circles more than a decade ago. At the request of Congress in 2007, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) developed a report on server and data center energy use, costs, and efficiency opportunities.
This set off a green data center movement that gave rise to companies such as Verne Global , which created a hydroelectric- and geothermal-powered data center in Iceland. And after a Microsoft researcher wrote a paper proposing underwater data centers a few years later, Microsoft made a splash with an underwater data center that employed seawater for cooling. Meanwhile, Highlander recently signed an agreement to build a commercial underwater data center at Sanya, a coastal city in China.
Work to build more energy-efficient data centers continues at Microsoft , Amazon , Facebook , Google , Intel and an array of other companies. Many green data center efforts focus primarily on using renewable energy sources to power and/or cool standard computing equipment. But in a world that continues to battle a global pandemic and has seen U.S. workers quitting their jobs at record rates , sustainability doesn’t get as much attention as it has in the past.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! However, as the World Health Organization (WHO) recently reminded us, climate change is the “ single biggest health threat facing humanity ,” leading to extreme weather events, disruption of food systems and the spread of diseases. And quantum computing can help address that.
Quantum computing can help power carbon fixation , the process of reducing carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by converting it into other useful compounds. Plants do this naturally, but quantum computers can help us discover synthetic catalytic processes. Instead of painstaking trial-and-error experiments, quantum computers can efficiently simulate alternatives and find efficient methods to extract carbon dioxide and convert it into useful chemicals.
It’s also worth considering how the choice of computing equipment — today and in the future — will impact energy usage. And you may be surprised to learn that quantum computers can perform some calculations much faster using just a fraction of the energy used by classical computers.
Here’s why: A conventional data center computer may use billions of transistors. But with a quantum computer, you have hundreds — or, eventually, millions — of qubits (quantum bits). That means you only need enough energy to excite, or move around, millions of atoms instead of billions of transistors. And quantum computers can analyze massive data sets in parallel; whereas classical computers need to analyze them serially.
I’m not alone in the belief that quantum computers will be vastly more energy-efficient than supercomputers in certain computational problems. Published research by a team of experts from NASA’s Ames Research Center, Google, and Oak Ridge National Lab have demonstrated this benefit. In their analysis, the quantum computer used 0.002% of the energy used by a classical computer to perform the same task.
Quantum computing will help companies and researchers solve some of the world’s previously unsolvable problems in such areas as drug discovery, electric vehicle battery innovation, and power grid optimization at a time when the world’s need for solutions is bigger than ever before.
The race is on for companies and countries to deploy quantum solutions to their advantage. But it’s important to remember that, when it comes to climate change, we’re all in this together. And we all stand to benefit from breakthroughs that quantum computing can enable. The fact that quantum computers require much less energy than conventional computers makes them even more valuable.
Nir Minerbi is co-founder and CEO of Classiq DataDecisionMakers Welcome to the VentureBeat community! DataDecisionMakers is where experts, including the technical people doing data work, can share data-related insights and innovation.
If you want to read about cutting-edge ideas and up-to-date information, best practices, and the future of data and data tech, join us at DataDecisionMakers.
You might even consider contributing an article of your own! Read More From DataDecisionMakers The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! DataDecisionMakers Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
