Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Jaspersoft may be looking to acquire with its $11M funding Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Business intelligence software maker, Jaspersoft , announced yesterday that it raised $11 million dollars in funding. The round was lead by existing investors Red Hat and SAP Ventures in addition to including newcomer Quest Software.
Jaspersoft caters to the enterprise with business intelligence products. It aims to centralize the way data is secured, delivered and analyzed.
“Data around us is exploding, the need to make sense of it is bigger than ever. You need to have an analytic product,” said Brian Gentile, chief executive of Jaspersoft.
You would think that means the funding will go toward creating a new product or enhancing its current one, right? Wrong. When asked what the plan was, Gentile replied, “We’d like to say we are doing nothing with it.” In essence, Jaspersoft is tabling the funds to be used as an “agile agent on the balance sheet”.
“The funding allows us to look beyond our roadmap and make tougher build versus buy decisions,” said Gentile. This means Jaspersoft is looking to acquire. Gentile elaborated there are four key areas Jaspersoft may buy into as opposed to create products in-house. In priority order they are: 1) Advanced Reporting: The ability to provide reports on a company’s operation and production data.
2) Advanced Visualization: Supplying visual representations of data, such as a sophisticated graph form.
3) Data Movement: Streamlining the transfer of data from its original source and formatting it to be consumed by Jaspersoft’s analytics engine.
4) Advanced Analytics: More intelligent analysis of data using a variety of techniques such as memory and predictive analysis.
Jaspersoft has received $58 million in funding to date with Quest Software, Red Hat, SAP Ventures, Doll Capital Management, Morgenthaler Ventures, Partech International, Scale Venture Partners, and Adams Street Partners. The company is based in San Francisco and has 140 employees.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
