Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Event Shining the spotlight on data governance at Transform 2022 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Transform is the leading event on applied AI for enterprise business and technology decision makers. As part of that, we’ve tapped industry thought leaders for insights into one of the most critical issues in the world of applied AI. On July 21, 2022, data governance takes center stage, with a series of virtual sessions on building a solid data governance program, managing the onrush of data from the cloud, a new perspective on healthcare data and more.
You’ll walk away with actionable insights on managing the availability, usability, integrity and security of your data, how to make it work harder for you, and more. Read on for a closer look at these talks on data governance and AI from leaders at American Express, Janssen R&D and Capital One.
Check out your July 21 agenda Operating models lay the foundation for solid data governance programs — but how can business leaders make sure operating models are meeting the requirements of their organizations? At 9:00 a.m. PDT, Pascale Hutz, chief data officer at American Express, makes the case for a federated data governance operating model with a look at how American Express has done it. He’ll share best practices for opening data governance offices across business units, including hiring and funding dedicated data governance roles and ensuring data executive sponsorship.
At 9:20 a.m., get a new perspective on healthcare data, when Hal Stern, VP & CIO at Janssen R&D, sits down with VentureBeat’s head of data and AI content strategy, Hari Sivaraman. In this Fireside Chat, you’ll learn how Janssen’s integrated and standardized data ecosystem helps the company derive deep insights and make timely decisions for its therapeutic portfolio — plus why healthcare data is music, not oil.
And at 9:40 a.m., get a glimpse into the future when you learn why holistic data governance is key to getting the most out of your data.
 Patrick Barch, Sr. director of product management at Capital One Software, will dive into the best ways to manage and govern the influx of data that cloud brings, why companies are struggling with data governance and how to implement a holistic data governance strategy that captures all your data and turns it into insight.
Two full weeks of VB Transform are coming up fast, so don’t forget to register now! July 19: The Data & AI Executive Summit | LIVE at The Palace Hotel, San Francisco, CA Join over 500 data and AI executives in-person to network with peers and hear success stories from C-level thought leaders on applied data and AI strategies.
July 20-22: The Data Week | Virtual July 26-28: The AI & Edge Week | Virtual Cutting across the most critical topics in data and Al, learn from wherever you are across the two weeks.
Get the full agenda here.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! DataDecisionMakers Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
