Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AWS re:Inforce: BigID looks to reduce risk and automate policies for AWS cloud Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Data intelligence platform provider BigID today announced extended auto-detection and automated discovery for AWS accounts and datasets, as well as security and privacy-aware access control for AWS cloud infrastructure.
Because the average AWS customer has multiple accounts, the addition of the new intelligent access control feature is designed to reduce risk and automate role-based policies across AWS including S3, Redshift, Athena, EMR, and more with extended integrations with AWS Lake Formation and AWS Glue, the company said.
Intelligent access for streamlining security with BigID The intelligence access control feature is important because it simplifies and streamlines data security within AWS — not just finding the data at risk but giving IT the ability to set role-based policies in AWS using intelligence from BigID, said Eran Gewurtz, director of product management, security.
The idea is to help AWS customers automate intelligent access control to enable and restrict access to their sensitive data while creating business policies based on data sensitivity and context, the company said. Customers can improve their cloud data risk posture and reduce complexity by automatically protecting high-risk data while applying tags and labels to their AWS data based on sensitivity and risk.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Automated discovery to search across the cloud By providing automated discovery, BigID is aiming to make it easier for organizations to automatically find their accounts and data and extend data protection across the cloud.
“You can’t protect what you don’t know: Automated discovery gives you a head start on finding the most vulnerable data — and accounts — across an organization,’’ Gewurtz said. This type of granular autodetection layers in automation and machine learning (ML)-powered insight to accelerate actionable data protection in the cloud, he said.
The new capabilities are designed to let customers automatically find sensitive data, assets and accounts inside AWS without manual processes or configurations. The features are also designed to automatically provision roles and permissions across their multi-account environments to save time and costs and automate data scanning across multiple accounts and data sources.
“Data in the cloud can be tricky to protect: You have to know what it is, whose it is, where it is — and on top of that, you need to configure everything to have the right protection and access controls,’’ Gewurtz said. “Data at risk is a top priority for security teams, and one of the most important issues is how to protect that data.” Available via the AWS Marketplace , organizations that use AWS Control Tower can now automate the deployment of BigID. These expanded capabilities are geared toward reducing complexity, cost and time-to-insight for organizations managing their data in AWS.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
