Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Katana Graph raises $28.5 million to handle unstructured data at scale Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Katana Graph , a startup that helps businesses analyze and manage unstructured data at scale, today announced a $28.5 million series A round led by Intel Capital.
Katana Graph was founded by University of Texas at Austin computer science professor Keshav Pingali and assistant professor Chris Rossbach. The company helps businesses ingest large amounts of data into memory, CEO Pingali told VentureBeat in a phone interview. The UT-Austin research group started working with graph processing and unstructured data two years ago and began by advising DARPA on projects that deal with data at scale. Katana Graph works in Python and compiles data using C++.
Like companies that deal with algorithm auditing , AIOps , and model monitoring and management services, startups have emerged to help businesses analyze and label data, which may be why Labelbox raised $40 million and Databricks raised $1 billion.
Katana Graph is currently working with customers in health, pharmaceuticals, and security.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “One of the customers we’re engaged with has a graph with 4.3 trillion pages, and that is an enormous amount of data. So ingesting that kind of data into the memory of a cluster is a big problem, and what we were able to do with the ingest time is reduce the ingest time from a couple of days to about 20 minutes,” Pingali said.
Today’s round included participation from WRVI Capital, Nepenthe Capital, Dell Technologies Capital, and Redline Capital.
Katana Graph was founded in March 2020 and is based in Austin, Texas. The company has 25 employees and is using the funding to expand its marketing, sales, and engineering teams.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
