Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages OctoML raises $28M for machine learning deployment optimization Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Studies like the 2020 State of AI report from McKinsey have found that businesses capable of deploying multiple AI models are considered high performers, but a survey of business leaders included in the report found fewer than 20% have taken deep learning projects beyond the pilot stage. It’s well known that most businesses face challenges deploying AI in production, which has led to a rise in startups that serve needs like AIOps or auditing.
 In the latest news for such a company, OctoML today raised a $28 million series B funding round.
OctoML helps businesses accelerate AI model inference and training and relies on the open source Apache TVM machine learning compiler framework. TVM is currently being used by companies like Amazon, AMD, Arm, Facebook, Intel, Microsoft, and Qualcomm. OctoML will use the funding to continue building out products like its Octomizer platform and investing in its go-to-market strategy and customer service teams.
“We started the TVM work as a research project at the University of Washington about five years ago, and all the key people in the project they all got their Ph.D.s and are part of the company now,” OctoML CEO and cofounder Luis Ceze told VentureBeat. “We’re focused on making inference fast on any hardware, and support cloud and edge deployments.” Last month, OctoML joined more than 20 startups — including Algorithmia and Determined AI — that have banded together to create the AI Infrastructure Alliance , an effort to promote interoperability between the offerings from AI startups and advance alternatives to popular cloud AI services.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The $28 million funding round was led by Addition, with participation from existing investors Madrona Venture Group and Amplify Partners.
OctoML has raised $47 million to date, including a $3.9 million seed funding round in October 2019 , just months after the company was founded. OctoML is based in Seattle with remote employees across the United States.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
