Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Magazine View previous issues MIT News Magazine What’s Next? It’s too late to stop climate change from happening. But we can begin to limit the damage and slow it down.
Letter from the editor View previous issue View next issue Features Categorized in 17037 Stop Emissions! A climate scientist argues that it should no longer be acceptable to dump carbon dioxide in the sky.
Categorized in 17037 Witnessing Climate Change Everywhere On an Instagram account called everydayclimatechange, the photographer James Whitlow Delano curates pictures that document causes and effects of global warming and responses to it.
Categorized in 17037 The Evidence Oceans are rising, Antarctica is losing its ice sheets, and the lower atmosphere is heating up. Satellite data (bottom) shows the atmosphere is warming at its lowest layer (the troposphere), while the stratosphere, which begins around 10 kilometers above the ground, is cooling. Scientists say this is consistent with the greenhouse effect.
Categorized in 17037 This Climate Policy Could Save the Planet Here’s a smart way for us to limit carbon emissions and keep global warming below 2 °C.
Categorized in Climate change and energy The Energy Startup Conundrum An inventor of a storage technology tries to outlast a brutal stretch for new energy companies.
Categorized in 17035 A Change of Mind Diana Bianchi championed tests that find Down syndrome early in pregnancy. Now can she find a way to treat it? Categorized in Artificial intelligence Can This Man Make AI More Human? One cognitive scientist thinks the leading approach to machine learning can be improved by ideas gleaned from studying children.
Also in this issue The Fast Rise of Ad Blockers Categorized in 17041 Hot and Violent Researchers have begun to understand the economic and social damage caused by climate change.
Categorized in Climate change and energy The End of Internet Advertising as We’ve Known It Millions of people are refusing to let intrusive, distracting, or irrelevant ads load on our devices. Consumers should seize the opportunity to demand a more mutually beneficial relationship with online advertisers.
Categorized in 17032 Are Young Athletes Risking Brain Damage? Sports leagues should do more to protect children from the long-term problems that stem from hits to the head.
Categorized in 17035 The Ideal Fuel A nanomaterials chemist has figured out a good way to mimic leaves and turn water and carbon dioxide into things we need.
Categorized in 17037 A Conservative Proposition for Global Warming In 1990, a Brazilian politician proposed what he presumed would be a simple way to kick our fossil-fuel habit.
Categorized in 17032 Past issues Updated The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
