Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Magazine View previous issues MIT News Magazine The Artificial Intelligence Issue Advances in artificial intelligence are about to force all of us to confront questions about privacy, inequality, employment—and what it really means to be human.
Letter from the editor View previous issue View next issue Features Categorized in Artificial intelligence Is AI Riding a One-Trick Pony? Just about every AI advance you’ve heard of depends on a breakthrough that’s three decades old. Keeping up the pace of progress will require confronting AI’s serious limitations.
Categorized in 17032 India Warily Eyes AI Technology outsourcing has been India’s only reliable job creator in the past 30 years. Now artificial intelligence threatens to wipe out those gains.
Categorized in 17035 Can AI Keep You Healthy? A Chinese entrepreneur wants to track your health data and suggest ways to improve. But are computers really smart enough to make sense of all that information? Categorized in Artificial intelligence China’s AI Awakening中国 人工智能 的崛起 The West shouldn’t fear China’s artificial-intelligence revolution. It should copy it.
Categorized in Inside the Moonshot Effort to Finally Figure Out the Brain AI is only loosely modeled on the brain. So what if you wanted to do it right? You’d need to do what has been impossible until now: map what actually happens in neurons and nerve fibers.
Also in this issue Put Humans at the Center of AI At Stanford and Google, Fei-Fei Li is leading the development of artificial intelligence—and working to diversify the field.
Categorized in Artificial intelligence We Need Computers with Empathy An emerging trend in artificial intelligence is to get computers to detect how we’re feeling and respond accordingly. They might even help us develop more compassion for one another.
Categorized in 17032 How We Feel About Robots That Feel As robots become smart enough to detect our feelings and respond appropriately, they could have something like emotions of their own. But that won’t necessarily make them more like humans.
Categorized in 17032 The Seven Deadly Sins of AI Predictions Mistaken extrapolations, limited imagination, and other common mistakes that distract us from thinking more productively about the future.
Categorized in Fearsome Machines: A Prehistory A time line of what happened when in the history of artificial intelligence.
Categorized in 17032 The Dangers of Tech-Bro AI Tabitha Goldstaub, a cofounder of CognitionX , which helps companies deploy AI, says that diversifying the field is necessary to make sure products actually work well.
Categorized in 17032 How to Root Out Hidden Biases in AI Algorithms are making life-changing decisions like denying parole or granting loans. Cynthia Dwork, a computer scientist at Harvard, is developing ways of making sure the machines are operating fairly.
Categorized in 17032 Fiction That Gets AI Right What to watch and read before the robots take over.
Categorized in Artificial intelligence Don’t Let Regulators Ruin AI Tech policy scholar Andrea O’Sullivan says the U.S. needs to be careful not to hamstring innovation.
Categorized in 17032 Past issues Updated The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
