Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons John Hennessy Maria Klawe David Patterson Science What James Damore Got Wrong About Gender Bias in Computer Science Hotlittlepotato Save this story Save Save this story Save In August Google employee James Damore made the news and even Wikipedia by publishing his speculation that female software engineers are underrepresented due to inherent biological differences. Although he admitted that implicit bias and explicit bias may exist, Damore wrote, “I’m simply stating that the distribution of preferences and abilities of men and women differ in part due to biological causes and that these differences may explain why we don’t see equal representation of women in tech and leadership.” John Hennessy was the tenth president of Stanford University, founded successful startups, and serves on the board of Alphabet. Maria Klawe ( @MariaKlawe ) is the fifth president of Harvey Mudd College, served on Microsoft’s board, and is former president of the Association for Computing Machinery. David Patterson was chair of UC Berkeley's computer science department and was also formerly president of the Association for Computing Machinery.
It’s an ironic conjecture historically, since many early programmers were women.
We make four points in rebuttal.
First, we know implicit bias exists, and that most of us have some. Such bias also has significant effects on observed performance. Bias, often implicit , continues to limit women’s progress in scientific and engineering fields. And the more implicit gender bias a nation has, the worse its girls perform in science and math.
Hence the need for effective programs to overcome unconscious biases.
Second, both established research and common sense tell us that members of underrepresented groups are more easily discouraged because they face daily biases that others don’t. Coaching programs—like Stanford Women in Computer Science , which has helped increase the number of women CS majors dramatically—can compensate. While anyone can selectively pick papers to support one’s version of “the truth,” virtually all scientists who have studied these issues agree that implicit bias and stereotyping are significant barriers for members of underrepresented groups. After all, the more egalitarian the society, the smaller the sex differences in science and math performance.
 When women feel secure and affirmed , they perform as well as men on math tests.
The three of us have tried to counteract these barriers as faculty and administrators, and we've seen women flourish under our tutelage.
RELATED STORIES Diversity Megan Molteni and Adam Rogers WIRED Opinion Alison Coil google Ashley Feinberg Third, many labor studies predict a dramatic shortage of software engineers over the next five years, which will limit the growth of an industry that plays a vital role in our economy. To be competitive in this critical industry, employers must be able to draw from the entire US population, not only the one-third who are non-Hispanic white and Asian men. Moreover, a diverse workforce is correlated with successful institutions of all types: companies , universities, government , the military , and so on.
Fourth, while it's important to discuss these sensitive issues, hashing them out face-to-face allows discussion participants to see the impact of their words and to identify flaws in their reasoning before circulating their misconceptions widely. Unfortunately, electronic communication can lose the nuances and the quick feedback of live conversations, and can lead to text that's long-lived and demoralizes the underrepresented.
As one author whom Damore cited quips: “Using someone’s biological sex to essentialize an entire group of people’s personality is like surgically operating with an axe. Not precise enough to do much good, probably will cause a lot of harm.” Dispiriting words can also have the unintended side-effect of condoning discrimination based on gender, race, or ethnicity.
This controversy isn't political: Egalitarianism should be the American way. It's about fairness, civility, and common sense. A real meritocracy demands nothing less.
WIRED Opinion publishes pieces written by outside contributors and represents a wide range of viewpoints. Read more opinions here.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Topics gender James Damore diversity Max G. Levy Grace Browne Matt Simon Amit Katwala Max G. Levy Dell Cameron Dhruv Mehrotra Matt Reynolds Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
