Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Watch the Little Robot That Taught the Big Robot Something New About Credits Released on 05/10/2017 [Narrator] Yes, I know, I know.
You can do this much faster than a robot.
But there's something fascinating going on here behind the scenes.
An operator has taught the robot, named Optimus, how to pull a tube out of another tube.
To do so, the human worked in a 3D environment, kind of like a video game, to demonstrate how it's done.
So, cool, now the robot can manipulate tubes.
But what's so remarkable about this system is this little robot can then seamlessly transfer that knowledge to a much, much bigger robot.
Namely, the famous Atlas humanoid, which stands at six feet tall.
So that knowledge is combined with new information for Atlas about how to adapt this behavior for itself.
After all, it has to do it while balancing on two legs.
For now, this transfer of knowledge only works for Atlas in a simulation.
But this is a big step towards the future where robots share knowledge on vast scales.
Researchers are already building robots that can teach themselves to do things like open doors through what's known as reinforcement learning.
So, imagine a day when one robot in a factory somewhere learns to do something more efficiently, then uploads that knowledge to the cloud for other robots.
And not just robots of its own kind.
With advances like this with the Optimus robot, the machines will be able to communicate across species.
Nothing to worry about, I'm sure.
Look, they smile.
Nothing to worry about at all.
Starring: Matt Simon SpotMini & Boston Dynamics Founder Marc Raibert at WIRED25 How to Get Robots to Walk (and Jump and Run) Among Us Meet the Remarkable Robot That Communicates Like No Other How Brett the Robot is Learning by Failing Chappie & the Taxonomy of Movie Robots Automation Anywhere Presents Mihir Shukla in Conversation with Jahna Berry Let’s Catch Up With Pepper, the Dancing, Surprisingly Helpful Humanoid Soccer Playing Robot Predicts the Euro Cup Winner Wired's Top Five Science Stories of 2015 How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
