Account overview Billing Profile Emails & marketing Data privacy Settings Help Comments & replies Sign out switch to the US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition current edition: The Guardian - Back to home News US news World news Environment US politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL F1 Golf Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money What term do you want to search? Search with google Support us Print subscriptions US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Google Assistant ChatGPT update will give it a voice and allow users to interact using images The move will bring the artificial intelligence chatbot closer to popular voice assistants such as Apple’s Siri and Amazon’s Alexa Published: 25 Sep 2023 ChatGPT update will give it a voice and allow users to interact using images Voice assistants could ‘hinder children’s social and cognitive development’ Researchers suggest devices such as Alexa could have a long-term impact on empathy, compassion and critical thinking skills Published: 28 Sep 2022 Voice assistants could ‘hinder children’s social and cognitive development’ Google IO: Pixel 6a, Pixel Watch and Android 13 unveiled New Pro earbuds and upcoming Pixel 7 phones, tablet and software shown off during virtual event Published: 11 May 2022 Google IO: Pixel 6a, Pixel Watch and Android 13 unveiled Alex Bellos's Monday puzzle Can you solve it? The viral maths video that will have you in stitches Are you smarter than Google Assistant? Published: 24 Jan 2022 Can you solve it? The viral maths video that will have you in stitches Radio industry calls for government protection from smart assistants Broadcasters fear Alexa, Siri and Google Assistant may gradually sideline UK content Published: 21 Oct 2021 Radio industry calls for government protection from smart assistants 5 out of 5 stars.
Sonos Roam review: the portable speaker you’ll want to use at home too 5 out of 5 stars.
Published: 13 Apr 2021 Sonos Roam review: the portable speaker you’ll want to use at home too 4 out of 5 stars.
Google Nest Hub (2nd gen) review: wearable-free sleep tracking smart display 4 out of 5 stars.
Published: 8 Apr 2021 Google Nest Hub (2nd gen) review: wearable-free sleep tracking smart display Google’s new smart display tracks your sleep using radar Second-gen Nest Hub avoids the user needing to wear a bracelet or headband and acts as smart alarm Published: 16 Mar 2021 Google’s new smart display tracks your sleep using radar Sonos Roam: cheaper, multi-room portable smart speaker launched Smaller, lighter and water-resistant device has Bluetooth and wifi, aimed at home and outdoor use Published: 9 Mar 2021 Sonos Roam: cheaper, multi-room portable smart speaker launched Older Australians give smart tech a thumbs up for music and video chat – but not vacuuming A federal government-funded project looked at how devices might help keep people in their homes longer Published: 27 Feb 2021 Older Australians give smart tech a thumbs up for music and video chat – but not vacuuming Google suffers global outage with Gmail, YouTube and majority of services affected Error was due to lack of storage space in authentication tools causing system to crash Published: 14 Dec 2020 Google suffers global outage with Gmail, YouTube and majority of services affected Alexa, Siri... Elsa? Children drive boom in smart speakers Coronavirus has accelerated the use of voice assistants, but there are concerns about unregulated online ‘playgrounds’ Published: 18 Oct 2020 Alexa, Siri... Elsa? Children drive boom in smart speakers 5 out of 5 stars.
Google Nest Audio review: smart speaker gets music upgrade 5 out of 5 stars.
Louder, more bass and better sound for Google Assistant speaker made of recycled plastic bottles Published: 12 Oct 2020 Google Nest Audio review: smart speaker gets music upgrade Sam's smart buys The best smart speakers for all budgets Whether you want good sound, the cheapest or an alarm clock replacement, here are the options Published: 1 Aug 2020 The best smart speakers for all budgets 4 out of 5 stars.
Pixel Buds review: Google's competent AirPods alternative 4 out of 5 stars.
Good sound, battery life, case and design, with instant translation and different silicone tip with open-air-like fit Published: 20 Jul 2020 Pixel Buds review: Google's competent AirPods alternative Sonos launches new Arc soundbar with Dolby Atmos Wireless speaker firm revamps top TV audio line, plus Sonos 5 speakers and gen 3 Sub Published: 6 May 2020 Sonos launches new Arc soundbar with Dolby Atmos How to stop your smart home spying on you Everything in your smart home, from the lightbulbs to the thermostat, could be recording you or collecting data about you. What can you do to curb this intrusion? Published: 8 Mar 2020 How to stop your smart home spying on you 5 out of 5 stars.
Google Nest Mini review: better bass and recycled plastic 5 out of 5 stars.
Upgrade keeps what is good and improves sound for Google’s smallest, cheapest smart speaker Published: 16 Jan 2020 Google Nest Mini review: better bass and recycled plastic 5 out of 5 stars.
Google Nest Hub Max review: bigger, better and smarter display 5 out of 5 stars.
Camera with local AI for face recognition allows proactive display of personalised information Published: 6 Nov 2019 Google Nest Hub Max review: bigger, better and smarter display 3 out of 5 stars.
Google Pixel 4 review: a good phone ruined by poor battery life 3 out of 5 stars.
Brilliant camera, slick features and small size mean nothing when the phone won’t even last a day Published: 31 Oct 2019 Google Pixel 4 review: a good phone ruined by poor battery life About 43 results for Google Assistant 1 Topics Google Smart speakers Gadgets Amazon Alexa Alphabet US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top Close
