Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts DeepMind’s AI will accelerate drug discovery by predicting how proteins fold By Karen Hao archive page Google DeepMind has developed a tool to predict the structure of proteins from their genetic sequence, marking a noteworthy example of using AI in the process of scientific discovery.
How it works: The system, called AlphaFold, models the complex folding patterns of long chains of amino acids, based on their chemical interactions, to form the three-dimensional shape of a protein. This is known as the “ protein folding problem ,” which has challenged scientists for decades.
Why it matters: The shape of a protein dictates its function in the body, so being able to predict a protein’s structure allows scientists to synthesize new protein-based drugs to treat diseases or new enzymes to break down pollutants in our environment.
Training data: The DeepMind team trained deep neural networks to predict the distances between pairs of amino acids and the angles between their chemical bonds, using the massive amounts of data available from genomic sequencing. The resulting system generates highly accurate protein structures, exceeding previous prediction techniques, the team says.
The bigger picture: DeepMind isn’t the only one working to accelerate scientific discovery with machine learning. Many other companies and researchers have sought to develop algorithms for discovering new drugs and new materials.
hide by Karen Hao Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 With just a few minutes of sample video and $1,000, brands never have to stop selling their products.
By Zeyi Yang archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Rogue superintelligence and merging with machines: Inside the mind of OpenAI’s chief scientist An exclusive conversation with Ilya Sutskever on his fears for the future of AI and why they’ve made him change the focus of his life’s work.
By Will Douglas Heaven archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
