Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts The computing power needed to train AI is now rising seven times faster than ever before By Karen Hao archive page Go player Ke Jie plays a match against Google's artificial intelligence program, AlphaGo AP In 2018, OpenAI found that the amount of computational power used to train the largest AI models had doubled every 3.4 months since 2012.
The San Francisco-based for-profit AI research lab has now added new data to its analysis. This shows how the post-2012 doubling compares with the historic doubling time since the beginning of the field. From 1959 to 2012, the amount of power used doubled every two years, tracking Moore’s Law. This means the resources used today are doubling at a rate seven times faster than before.
This dramatic increase in the resources needed underscores just how costly the field’s achievements have become. Keep in mind that the above graph shows a logarithmic scale. On a linear scale (below), you can more clearly see how compute usage has increased by 300,000-fold in the last seven years.
The chart also notably does not include some of the most recent breakthroughs, including Google’s large-scale language model BERT , OpenAI’s language model GPT-2 , or DeepMind’s StarCraft II-playing model AlphaStar.
In the past year, more and more researchers have sounded the alarm on the exploding costs of deep learning. In June, an analysis from researchers at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, showed how these increasing computational costs directly translate into carbon emissions.
In their paper, they also noted how the trend exacerbates the privatization of AI research because it undermines the ability for academic labs to compete with much more resource-rich private ones.
In response to this growing concern, several industry groups have made recommendations. The Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence, a nonprofit research firm in Seattle, has proposed that researchers always publish the financial and computational costs of training their models along with their performance results, for example.
In its own blog, OpenAI suggested policymakers increase funding to academic researchers to bridge the resource gap between academic and industry labs.
Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated the doubling time today is more than seven times the rate before. The resources used are doubling seven times faster, and the doubling time itself is one-seventh the previous time.
hide by Karen Hao Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 With just a few minutes of sample video and $1,000, brands never have to stop selling their products.
By Zeyi Yang archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Rogue superintelligence and merging with machines: Inside the mind of OpenAI’s chief scientist An exclusive conversation with Ilya Sutskever on his fears for the future of AI and why they’ve made him change the focus of his life’s work.
By Will Douglas Heaven archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
