Indaba IndabaX Awards Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Indaba Abantu Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2020 Indaba IndabaX Awards Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Indaba Abantu Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2020 IndabaX: Malawi 22 Jul - 23 Jul 2021 Number of Attendees: Location: ( view map ) Contact Details of Organizers: Amelia Taylor ( ataylor@poly.ac.mw ) For more information ( indabax@poly.ac.mw) Event website: https://indabaxmw.wordpress.com/ Host Institution Malawi University of Business and Applied Science (former The Malawi Polytechnic) Theme Machine Learning for Biodiversity and National Heritage Overview Indaba-X Malawi is part of Deep Learning Indaba, an African wide community aiming at supporting advancements in technology and artificial intelligence. Deep Learning Indaba aims at building communities, creating leadership, and recognising excellence in the development of machine learning and artificial intelligence across Africa. Indaba-X Malawi was first held in 2019 and attracted over 100 applicants.
We are pleased to announce that this year we joined forces with the “ Biodiversity Transforming Malawi ”, Early Career, and Research Leaders & Policy Makers Workshop (Twitter: @MSBiodiversit).
We are holding joint sessions together on the 22 nd July 2021.
 Details of the program will be announced soon on our website.
For more updates, follow us on Twitter: @AT_poly_AI Sessions We are structuring our sessions into five tracks containing talks, practical workshops and posters.
TRACK 1: Machine Learning: algorithms and areas of applications Statistics for Machine Learning Lessons Learnt from the Medical and Health Research in Malawi Early Detection and decision support systems TRACK 2: Start your Machine Learning Journey Introduction to Python Introduction to R Data processing and analysis for Machine Learning Introduction to ML libraries (ScikitLearn, Tensorflow, etc.) TRACK 3: Remote Sensing and Drones Water management Forestry Management Wildlife Conservation Maps and GIS TRACK 4: AI for Preserving Indigenous Knowledge Digitization, Preparation and maintenance of datasets Machine Learning for Natural Language Processing Machine Learning for Computer Vision TRACK 5: Industry and Government Ethical Issues and Privacy Concerns of Computer Systems, IoT Legal and Regulatory Landscape in Malawi Top Challenges for Machine Learning Call for Participation We are soliciting lightning talks proposals for 5 or 10 minute talks and posters proposals in the form of a 1-2 page abstract. Lightning talks and posters should fit into the topics of the above tracks. They will be presented during the normal conference days, in dedicated time-slots. Submissions can contain case studies, research work (mature or in progress), open problems, ideas and critical reviews of relevant issues and research relevant in Malawi. We encourage participation from students, graduates, or early career academics and industry professionals. Regardless of who you are or the job title you hold, if you are a technologist who is interested in AI and Machine Learning and face unique challenges, we encourage you to be a part of Indaba-X Malawi 2021.
We would like to particularly welcome and encourage female technologists to participate! We will accept lightning talk proposals and posters via a submission form.
Several of our sessions will be also available through zoom. If you are interested but abroad please get in touch with us you may still be able to participate via zoom and pre-record your lightning talk or poster.If you wish to promote or pitch a product at Indaba-X Malawi, please contact us at indabax@poly.ac.mw about exhibition and sponsor opportunities.
INDABA-X 2021 Malawi is committed to providing an open, safe and enjoyable event experience for all event participants, and a welcoming environment for free discussion of ideas.
Important Dates Proposals Due : 30th June 2021 Notifications sent to presenters: 7th July 2021 Enrollment for Non-Presenters: Apply here Submission Form Send up your applications by filling in this form.
Contact us Deep Learning Indaba Strengthening African Machine Learning info@deeplearningindaba.com Indaba 2021 IndabaX Awards Mentorship Blog About Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
