Indaba IndabaX Awards Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Indaba Abantu Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2020 Indaba IndabaX Awards Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Indaba Abantu Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2020 IndabaX: Tanzania 19 Jun - 26 Jun 2021 Number of Attendees: Location: Tanzania ( view map ) Contact Details of Organizers: Essa Mohamedali ( essa@ailab.co.tz ) Frank G Kilima ( kilimaf@nm-aist.ac.tz) Dr. Dina Machuve ( dmachuve@gmail.com ) Krupa Suchak ( khsuchak@gmail.com) Frederick Apina ( fred.apina@gmail.com ) Gloriana Monko ( gmonko24@gmail.com ) Dr. Joseph Matiko ( jwmatiko@gmail.com) Dr. Denis Pastory ( denispastoty@gmail.com) Event website: www.ailab.co.tz/indabax List of Speakers Alex Tsado Alex Tsado operates at the intersection of disruptive technology, community economics, and historical regenerative philosophies, as they apply to the future of the global African and underrepresented.
Dr Denis Pastory Dr. Denis best describes himself as an Applied Research Scientist with expertise in machine learning and deep learning. He is passionate about seeing a change in struggling communities focusing on integrating ICT and AI to enhance crop production in low-resourced communities targeting Sub-Saharan Africa and Japan.
Dr Kassim Mwitondi His research work focuses, mainly, on the application of deep learning and other machine learning techniques in interdisciplinary modelling of real–life phe- nomena within the domain of Sustainable Development Goals, viewing each SDG as a Big Data node.
Jumanne Mtambalike Jumanne is best known for champion building stable innovation ecosystems in Africa through Sahara Ventures and its sub-companies.
Lavina Ramikssoon Her passion to unlock and be the consciousness for Africa's in fields of Artificial Intelligence and emerging technologies is evident. Her three foundational blocks include economics, technology, psychology.
Yesaya Athuman A Software Developer with a strong opinion on Software development best practices and adopt them at the core of every implementation. He is also part of eShangazi Chatbot which educates on sexual and reproductive health.
Zephania Reuben Data Scientist & AI Trainer, passionate about Artificial Intelligence specifically in solving problems in the field of telecommunications, electronics and space science.
Contact us Deep Learning Indaba Strengthening African Machine Learning info@deeplearningindaba.com Indaba 2021 IndabaX Awards Mentorship Blog About Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
