Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Newzoo: Esports revenues are on pace to grow 52% this year Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn ESL is one of the event organizers that publishers contract to run pro leagues.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Competitive gaming is going through a growth spurt in 2016.
Esports-related revenues are on pace to generate $493 million in 2016, according to a report from intelligence firm Newzoo.
 That’s up more than 51.7 percent from 2015, and it is also a 7 percent increase from the projection that Newzoo made to kick off 2016.
 Most of the growth comes from gaming publishers investing in the space as well as media rights selling off to broadcasters faster than expected. The rest of that revenue comes from event sponsorships, video advertising, and ticket sales.
Newzoo now projects that esports will drive $1.1 billion in revenues by 2019. Competing intelligence firm SuperData Research claims that esports is a $892 million market , but Newzoo does not include esports gambling in its figures, which is where most of that discrepancy comes from.
Above: Newzoo sees continued gains for esports revenues.
“More and more publishers are embracing esports strategically as a way to increase the longevity of their games through increased player engagement, and to boost franchise awareness among a broad audience through live competitions and tournaments,” Newzoo marketing director Emma McDonald explained in a statement. “For the latter reason, many publishers have looked to third-party organizers to help them set up tournaments around their new franchises. In total, Newzoo estimates that by the end of 2016, publishers will have spent close to $100 million to organizers to help them set up a tournaments, competitions, and leagues for their franchises.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! An example of those kinds of esports-as-marketing tournaments is Ubisoft’s Rainbow Six: Siege Pro League.
 The French publisher wants to keep players coming back, and it is working with event organizer ESL to put on regular seasons.
As for the media rights, that is something that is starting to shake out thanks to deals like Turner, which runs cable networks like TBS, running Counter-Strike: Global Offensive and Overwatch in its Eleague events.
 But those deals are a secondary or tertiary business model after increasing engagement.
“Many game publishers, however, still use esports as a marketing tool to drive the engagement of their player base, which leads to higher in-game spending,” wrote McDonald. “This is beneficial mostly to the publishers themselves.” But the growing popularity of esports, as well as the pro teams and players, means that media rights will continue to increase in value for the foreseeable future.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
