Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Tom Simonite Business Facial Recognition Is Suddenly Everywhere. Should You Worry? Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Face recognition Ethics Regulation End User Government Sector Public safety Source Data Images Sensors Video Technology Machine learning Machine vision The accuracy of facial-recognition algorithms has improved significantly in the past few years. That allows you to unlock an iPhone with your face. But the rapid adoption of the technology by government for uses such as airport security and policing has triggered a debate about the algorithms’ trustworthiness and how they are being used.
Civil rights groups and US government studies suggest the technology is often less accurate for women and people with darker skin tones.
 Three US cities, including San Francisco , recently blocked their agencies from using the technology altogether, while federal lawmakers from both sides of the aisle have expressed interest in regulating facial recognition.
Police and border agencies say using facial recognition helps them catch criminals and fraudsters more efficiently. Gretchen Greene, an affiliate researcher at MIT Media Lab and Harvard Berkman Klein Center, says that even if you trust the technology, wider government use requires careful debate. “I would rather live in a world where I feel I have some privacy, even in public spaces,” she says. “If people know where you are, you might not do those things that are the bedrock of what we think people in this country should be able to do.” High drama: A cannabis biotech firm roils small growers Are super-automatic espresso machines worth it? The twisted paths of “Global Girl” and the Lolita Express Cold War–era bunker mania forever altered Albania AI is coming for our faces.
 Plus, read the latest news on artificial intelligence 🎧 Things not sounding right? Check out our favorite wireless headphones , soundbars , and bluetooth speakers 📩 Want more? Sign up for our daily newsletter and never miss our latest and greatest stories Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Senior Editor X Topics face recognition artificial intelligence algorithms privacy Khari Johnson Will Knight Aarian Marshall Aarian Marshall Amanda Hoover Khari Johnson Khari Johnson Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
