Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Anthony Lydgate Science To an AI, Every Eye Tells a Story Sundar Pichai Michelle Groskopf Save this story Save Save this story Save Company Alphabet Google End User Consumer Sector Health care Sundar Pichai , CEO of Google R. Kim , Chief medical officer of Aravind Eye Hospital October 2018.
Subscribe to WIRED.
Plunkett + Kuhr Designers Ten cents won’t get you much in the American health care system—maybe a Band-Aid, if your HMO is feeling generous—but in parts of India, where nearly a quarter of the world’s blind population lives, it will cover the cost of a vision screening. Across the state of Tamil Nadu, the Aravind Eye Care System has set up a network of rural teleconsultation centers, each one supervised by a trained technician. When a patient comes in, the technician performs a basic workup, snaps photos of the inside of the eye, and sends a digital report to one of Aravind’s doctors, who calls in a diagnosis and a course of treatment. According to R. Kim, chief medical officer at Aravind’s hospital in Madurai, nearly 2,000 patients take advantage of these services every day. Yet he foresees an even breezier ophthalmic future, one powered by artificial intelligence : “You put a coin in a vending machine at the airport or the railway station, it takes pictures, and within a few seconds it tells you ‘Hey, you have this problem in your eye.’ ” AI can already screen for diabetic retinopathy by analyzing a retinal scan; in the future, the technology could be used to predict the risk for heart disease—and even dementia.
Courtesy of R. Kim Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Four years ago, a joint team of researchers from Google and Aravind began work on an automated tool for detecting diabetic retinopathy, one of the leading causes of blindness worldwide. (India is home to 74 million people with diabetes.) First, they trained an algorithm to recognize the signs of the disease—distinctive spots and bleeding in the retina, the light-sensing tissue at the back of the eye. Then they began feeding it new data from Aravind’s centers. When supplied with a patient’s retinal photos, the algorithm can spit out a diagnosis in a matter of seconds. For now, Aravind’s doctors still check its work, but soon—once it receives regulatory approval—the AI will go solo. Is Kim worried about losing his job to automation? “Not really,” he says. The easier screenings get, the more patients will get screened. “I have a feeling that we’ll be put to more work when AI comes into play, because it’s going to detect many more problems,” Kim says. Similar tools could soon spot glaucoma and other vision-killing conditions.
Silicon Valley trope that is every bit as absurd as people think : “The ubiquity of kale. It really is everywhere. I don’t believe people who say they like it.” Although Aravind’s rural vision centers are modestly equipped, they still require specialized gear. A retinal camera will set you back thousands of dollars, and it’s not something you’d want to lug into, say, a pop-up clinic or a refugee camp. But there may be a cheaper, more portable solution. Two years ago, a group of researchers published an article in the Indian Journal of Ophthalmology describing a remarkably effective DIY retinal camera. The ingredients: a smartphone with a plastic cover, a relatively inexpensive condensing lens, and about a dollar’s worth of PVC pipe, sandpaper, and electrical tape. Long before state-of-the-art ophthalmic vending machines begin dotting the world’s airports and railway stations, a setup like this could enable vision screenings on the fly. You take a picture, upload it to the cloud, and get your diagnosis in moments.
The career choice I didn’t pursue : “Architecture. I still enjoy playing with Legos!” Eyes have been called many things by many people—the interpreters of the mind (Cicero), the lamps of the body (Saint Matthew), the windows to the soul (anyone with a keyboard). In strictly neurological terms, though, your retinas are extensions of your central nervous system. They’re rooted in the brain, and they have all sorts of stories to tell about what’s going on beneath your skull. Earlier this year, for instance, Google debuted an algorithm that can identify a person’s sex and smoking status and predict the five-year risk of a heart attack, all on the basis of retinal imagery. (The same AI can also “infer ethnicity.”) As Kim notes, what makes these results so exciting is that the algorithm picked up on problems that the people who trained it couldn’t. “This is not something the human eye can see at this point,” he says. “There’s something beyond that the machine is seeing.” Medical researchers are actively studying the retina as an early-warning system for dementia, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s, and even schizophrenia. To understand the body, look to the eye.
This article appears in the October issue.
Subscribe now.
MORE FROM WIRED@25 : 2013-2018 Editor's Letter: Tech has turned the world upside down. Who will shake up the next 25 years ? Opening essay by Virginia Heffernan: Things break and decay on the internet— that's a good thing Edward Snowden and Malkia Cyril : Turnkey tyranny Satya Nadella and Jenny Lay-Flurrie : Mindful tech Susan Wojcicki and Geetha Murali : Getting girls into tech Jennifer Doudna and Jiwoo Lee : Taming Crispr Join us for a four-day celebration of our anniversary in San Francisco, October 12–15. From a robot petting zoo to provocative onstage conversations, you won't want to miss it. More information at www.Wired.com/25.
Topics magazine-26.10 WIRED25 vision artificial intelligence healthcare Amit Katwala Dell Cameron Grace Browne Dhruv Mehrotra Max G. Levy Matt Simon Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
