Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Nitasha Tiku Business Study Revives Debate About Google's Role in Filter Bubbles HOTLITTLEPOTATO Save this story Save Save this story Save Google says a very small percentage of its search results are personalized, a claim that has helped insulate the company from scrutiny over filter bubbles, especially compared with Facebook and YouTube, a Google subsidiary. But a new study from DuckDuckGo, a Google rival, found that users saw very different results when searching for terms such as “gun control,” “immigration,” and “vaccinations,” even after controlling for time and location. One participant saw a National Rifle Association video at the top of the results page for “gun control,” another saw Wikipedia at the top, while a third got the NRA video but no result from Wikipedia in any of the first 10 links.
The study also found that most users saw roughly similar results whether they were logged in to Google, logged out, or searching in private browsing, also known as Incognito mode. If private browsing on Google were truly anonymous, the study’s authors contend, all private browsing results should be the same.
DuckDuckGo’s conclusions are far from scientific. Only 87 individuals participated in the test. Each responded to a tweet from DuckDuckGo and sent screenshots of their results. Regardless of why results differed, variation in search results for political topics—particularly during an election year—underscores how users have little visibility into Google’s algorithms and don’t know whether, or how, the information they see is being filtered.
DuckDuckGo Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker DuckDuckGo CEO Gabe Weinberg told WIRED that the study took place before President Trump and other Republicans criticized Google for alleged anti-conservative bias, an unsubstantiated and self-serving claim. Weinberg does not believe that Google is altering search results because of political bias. Rather, he says the goal of the study is to draw attention to Google’s overall political influence, whether it is intentional or not. “I think search results are politically biased just by the nature of tailoring them to your past history,” Weinberg says.
Google says that if a user is logged out or searching in Incognito mode, it does not personalize results based on a user’s signed-in search history and does not use personal data. In those two modes, however, the results may be contextualized based on the session in that browser window. Google also shared a number of reasons that individuals who perform the same search query may see different results, including timing (for rapidly evolving news topics, it can vary by the second), the location of Google’s data centers, and localization of query results.
In September, the company told WIRED that only 2 to 2.5 percent of results from searches that are typed into the search box are meaningfully personalized; Google says this happens most often when a search is ambiguous, such as searching for Barcelona as a city or a soccer team. The implication was that users should not worry that it is creating filter bubbles, which can entrench partisan divisiveness and skew access to information. For instance, if a search algorithm reflects personal preferences, a liberal user might see more results about gun reform while a conservative user might see more results about gun rights. (In a similar vein, YouTube’s recommendations algorithm, which rewards engagement, has been known to serve increasingly extreme content to keep people watching, unintentionally radicalizing users in the process.) DuckDuckGo Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Not long after Trump tweeted in August that Google’s results were “rigged” against conservatives, the company briefed reporters on changes to its search algorithm that began in December 2016—around the time Google received bad press over misinformation, hate speech, and other problematic content in its search results. A visual aid showed the before and after results for a search on “Did the Holocaust happen.” Prior to the changes, the first result came from Stormfront.org, a hub for neo-Nazis. In a search on Monday, the top result was from the US Holocaust Memorial Museum.
Tuesday’s study is a follow-up on a similar test that DuckDuckGo conducted in 2012, looking at Google search results for Obama and Romney.
The Wall Street Journal performed its own independent version of the study and found that Google often customized results for users who recently searched for "Obama” but not for users who had recently searched for "Romney." At the time, Google told the paper the discrepancy was merely the result of the fact that more individuals searched for Obama’s name and then searched for topics, such as Iran, compared with people who searched for Romney’s name and then Iran. “The findings are among the latest examples of how mathematical formulas, rather than human judgments, influence more of the information that people encounter online,” The Journal wrote.
Diamonds and lasers could power your drone The WIRED Guide to online shopping (and digital retail) PHOTOS: Four Freedoms recast for modern America The music obsessives who tape your favorite concerts Inside the pricey war to influence your Instagram feed Hungry for even more deep dives on your next favorite topic? Sign up for the Backchannel newsletter Senior Writer X Facebook LinkedIn Topics Google search engines bias Paresh Dave Matt Burgess Khari Johnson Vittoria Elliott Reece Rogers Vittoria Elliott Reece Rogers Paresh Dave Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
