Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Corporate card startup Ramp integrates with Microsoft Teams and 365 Copilot Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: VentureBeat made with Midjourney Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Ramp , the high-flying corporate credit card and expense management software startup that counts such large clients as Shopify , is looking to make work easier for its customers who also use Microsoft products.
Today at Microsoft’s annual Ignite 2023 event, Ramp unveiled its new integration with Microsoft 365 Copilot , the AI assistant that is available across the Microsoft Windows 11 operating system. Ramp claims to be the “first financial software partner for Copilot.” Alive in Teams The new Ramp integration will live in the Microsoft Teams collaborative messaging and communications application as a bot that appears labeled “Ramp” and is analogous to another user, just powered by AI.
“It brings your expense workflows, conversations related to finance, directly into Teams,” said Ramp co-founder and CEO Eric Glyman in an interview with VentureBeat conducted over videoconference.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Answering questions The integration allows users — primarily those working in the expense or accounting departments, who are Ramp’s majority userbase, though potentially any employee could be authorized on the customer-side by their Ramp account administrators — to ask a Ramp bot within Microsoft Teams questions related to expenses, budgets, policies, and related matters.
For example, Glyman suggested that someone in accounting at a company that uses Ramp wants to “take actions to to notify everyone, every Ramp user, who hasn’t turned in their receipts or expenses,” at the end of the month to do so.
“With a prompt, they can do that through [Microsoft Teams],” Glyman noted.
However, if all employees are set up to access Ramp, as some of its customer companies have done, they could also query it more general questions related to the company’s expense policy.
“Employees who want to ask questions — can they buy this or that, is it in or out of policy? They can interact directly with the Copilot bot instead of going and having to read a 20-page document.” Saving time (and time is $) Glyman said that Ramp was motivated to pursue the integration because “so much work happens through chat, and through Teams.” Now, employees who use the Microsoft messaging app, even on mobile, can find expense-related information right at their fingertips and have their questions answered by a knowledgable AI assistant.
Glyman said that the Ramp for Microsoft 365 Copilot integration was available to all users of the expense management software platform, even of its free tier. The company makes money through charging merchant fees on its corporate credit cards.
Glyman and his colleagues at Ramp believe the integration will save time for Ramp customers by avoiding having expense and accounting departments overloaded with employee questions, and by allowing employees to have their expense and accounting-related questions answered immediately, instead of emailing a real person and having to wait for them to respond in the course of all their other work.
Taking actions The Ramp integration in Teams and Microsoft 365 Copilot also includes interactive actions, such as approvals, that Ramp customer administrators can set up. That way, if an employee asks for approval on an expense, the Ramp bot can verify that the expense is in line with the company’s policy and approve it right within Teams. All the actions that a user takes are then recorded in Ramp’s expense management software.
“It wraps back into Ramp’s interface and makes changes there,” Glyman explained.
It also supports multi-user chats, so several employees looking to engage with the Ramp bot can do so at the same time.
Why team-up? Glyman said the decision to pursue an AI-enabled integration with Microsoft was based on earlier work the company did integrating receipt forwarding from Microsoft Outlook into Ramp’s software platform, which proved to be very useful for combined customers of both companies.
“When the chance appeared to integrate into the Copilot ecosystem, we were really excited because we saw this as a very intuitive way to not just do things effortlessly, but to extend Ramp’s capabilities…to where people work,” the CEO told VentureBeat.
Ramp’s new Microsoft 365 Copilot integration is available starting now to all existing Ramp customers.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
