Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Qualcomm Smart Cities Accelerator Program expands to over 400 members Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Qualcomm is focused on IoT and smart cities.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Qualcomm said its smart city and internet of things (IoT) ecosystem now has more than 400 participating tech companies as the company enters the third year of its Qualcomm Smart Cities Accelerator Program.
The group includes system integrators, hardware and software providers, cloud solution providers, design and manufacturing companies, and more — all focused on delivering smart end-to-end solutions for modern cities, spaces, and enterprises.
Qualcomm made a number of IoT announcements today at its third annual Smart Cities Accelerate event in La Jolla, California. The company claimed that it continues to lead the IoT ecosystem with the growth of the Qualcomm Smart Cities Accelerator Program and momentum of the Qualcomm IoT Services Suite.
A comprehensive strategy of delivering IoT-as-a-service with a massive ecosystem is helping industries and cities adopt end-to-end smart solutions, enabling easier, faster, and more cost-effective management and deployment of smart spaces across industries including education, logistics, health care, transportation, inspection, energy, agriculture, and more.
Above: Qualcomm is going wide and deep on smart cities.
Sanjeet Pandit, Qualcomm’s global head of smart cities, said in an interview with VentureBeat that the company is enabling IoT-as-a-service through its services suite.
“This was an extremely fragmented space, and so the first thing we did was create a smart city accelerator program,” Pandit said. “Apologies for the analogy. But I would call this the Match.com of smart cities, where we bring everybody under one roof. And the ecosystem is nurtured by getting everybody to know everyone and to cooperate with each other.” The event featured a talk with Earvin “Magic” Johnson and city mayors — including Tishaura Jones of St. Louis, Sam Liccardo of San Jose, and Francis Suarez of Miami — coming together to discuss their visions for smart cities, the technologies needed for post-pandemic communities, closing the digital divide, and working in partnership with companies like Qualcomm.
Above: Qualcomm’s smart cities approach to construction.
Pandit said Qualcomm’s IoT-as-a-service offering has grown to 30 vertical markets — ranging from construction to warehouse management, first-responder services, inspections, and wildfire monitoring — in less than a year. The company helps cities implement the technologies in their markets by gathering all of the vendors and offering a solution for them to implement.
“We have everything from warehousing to location-as-a-service to smarter hospitals to oil and natural gas to agriculture to inspection,” Pandit said. “Everything is out of the box with hardware, software, dashboards — everything is integrated with commercially available devices ready to deploy for monetization.” Qualcomm’s aim is to show it can lead the digital transformation of industries with a differentiated approach that leverages the growing number of smart devices that make up the connected intelligent edge. Qualcomm said Booz Allen Hamilton has joined the program as a system integrator for ecosystem members.
The companies have collaborated on projects such as smart marine bases and naval fleet carriers, using vision intelligence and AI-infused cameras. Qualcomm said the event had more than 1,000 registrants.
“We have now taken the fragmentation out of the equation with solutions that are plug and play,” Pandit said.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
