Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon’s AWS launches RoboMaker to help developers test and deploy robotics applications Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Amazon’s cloud computing business, Amazon Web Services (AWS), has launched RoboMaker , a service designed to help developers build, test, and deploy robotics applications through the cloud.
With the rise in artificial intelligence (AI), we’ve seen countless companies emerge across the technology spectrum to bring automation to industries through software. Tying into that, we’ve also seen a marked rise in the real-world application of robotics, which includes autonomous food delivery services , delivery drones , and smarter warehouses.
Robots in the making AWS RoboMaker offers developers the ability to develop their code in the cloud, test it in open source robotics simulator Gazebo , and then deploy updates directly to their robots — be they airborne drones or robotic companions for the elderly.
 It also works on top of Robot Operating System ( ROS ), an open source framework for developing robotics software.
Ultimately, RoboMaker helps developers simultaneously create and configure multiple virtual worlds — from factories to retail stores — in which they can test software for their robots before deploying the code for real.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “When talking to our customers, we see the same pattern repeated over and again,” noted AWS RoboMaker general manager Roger Barga in a press release.
 “They spend a lot of time setting up infrastructure and cobbling together software for different stages of the robotics development cycle, repeating work others have done before, leaving less time for innovation.” But Amazon’s core pitch to developers here isn’t just a centralized development environment in the cloud — it’s also about serving access to myriad machine learning and analytics services, from the facial ID smarts of Amazon Rekognition, chatbot interface builder Amazon Lex, and synthesized human voices of Amazon Polly to the application and infrastructure monitoring tools within CloudWatch.
Additionally, RoboMaker integrates with Amazon SageMaker, a platform unveiled last year for developers who want to build their own custom machine learning systems.
“AWS RoboMaker provides prebuilt functionality to support robotics developers during their entire project, making it significantly easier to build robots, simulate performance in various environments, iterate faster, and drive greater innovation,” Barga added.
Bot and sold While Amazon itself relies heavily on robotics in its own factories and warehouses, the company is also reportedly planning to enter the consumer robotics realm next year with a home robot called Vesta, though details on these plans are fairly scant.
The global robotics market is estimated to become a $500 billion industry by 2025 , up from $40 billion last year.
Amazon said that AWS RoboMaker is available to cloud customers in the U.S. East (N. Virginia), U.S. West (Oregon), and EU (Ireland), though it will open to other regions over the next year.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
