Indaba Organisers Affiliated Communities Sponsorship Prospectus PROGRAMME Speakers Workshops Practicals Research in Africa Showcase POSTERS SHORT PAPERS AFRICAN DATASETS AI PRODUCT DEMOS Accelerating Growth Through AI/ML Ideathon Google Outreach & Mentorship Programme Guidance for staying in Accra Travel Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Recognising our Reviewers Code of Ethics and Conduct IndabaX Awards Kambule Doctoral Award Alele-Williams Masters Award Maathai Impact Award Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2022 Indaba Organisers Affiliated Communities Sponsorship Prospectus PROGRAMME Speakers Workshops Practicals Research in Africa Showcase POSTERS SHORT PAPERS AFRICAN DATASETS AI PRODUCT DEMOS Accelerating Growth Through AI/ML Ideathon Google Outreach & Mentorship Programme Guidance for staying in Accra Travel Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Recognising our Reviewers Code of Ethics and Conduct IndabaX Awards Kambule Doctoral Award Alele-Williams Masters Award Maathai Impact Award Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2022 Awards Applications are now closed. Awardees will be notified in June 2023. Nominations will reopen in 2024, please check back for eligibility details.
The Maathai Impact Award encourages and recognises work by African innovators that shows impactful application (including but not limited to technical, societal, environmental, and economic) of machine learning and artificial intelligence.
This award reinforces the legacy of Wangari Maathai in acknowledging the capacity of individuals to be a positive force for change: by recognising ideas and initiatives that demonstrate that each of us, no matter how small, can make a difference.
The award will be presented at the annual Deep Learning Indaba in September 2023. We welcome applications from individuals, teams and organisations themselves, or nominations by third parties.
Eligibility The award is open to individuals, teams, or organisations.
Impactful work in both academic and non-academic settings is eligible for this award.
The Awards Committee considers impactful work to be broadly defined as any work — technological, social, environmental or economic — that has had, or has the potential to positively transform specific African societies and communities. There are many ways to have an impact, and we hope that those who will submit nominations/self-nominations will be generous and creative in their judgement of the term ‘innovation’. Examples could include: A research paper that shows important results using machine learning to solve important problems that address food security.
The work of an African startup using machine learning, whose work is set to have positive impact or demonstrate technical excellence in their focus area.
An individual who has shown a track record of empowering individuals and groups affected or involved with machine learning.
Government agencies or individuals contributing positively to the policy and society conversations around machine learning and artificial intelligence.
An African non-profit organisation that empowers African innovators through skills development or mentoring.
An established business or startup that has deployed machine learning in an innovative way to positively impact their local communities or society at large.
Civil society, tech journalists, or community organisers doing grassroot work to empower and advance responsible AI research and practice.
Work focused on environmental or ecological protection in a specific African context or location.
Scholarship that utilises technology to educate about, showcase, or preserve African culture, language and history.
Nominations can be sent by anyone, including individuals and organisations themselves.
Nominations are welcomed from any African country.
All supporting letters and reports can be in any language. For letters and reports written in other languages, English translations should be supplied.
Applications are now closed.
Awardees will be notified in June 2023. Nominations will reopen in 2024, please check back for eligibility details.
Selection Criteria Nominations will be reviewed to assess the breadth of potential impact they have had, their role in strengthening African machine learning and artificial intelligence, and the strength of the supporting letters.
Further Questions and Contact If you have any questions, or need clarification on any part of this call for nominations, don’t hesitate to contact us at awards@deeplearningindaba.com In Honour of Prof. Wangari Muta Maathai Professor Wangari Muta Maathai, Africa’s first female Nobel Laureate, is internationally recognised for her contributions to democracy, peace and sustainable development in Kenya and across the greater African collective. Born in rural Kenya, she became the first woman in East and Central Africa to earn a doctorate degree and following that be appointed to associate professor. Alongside her academic career, Professor Maathai was a vociferous environmental and political activist, and was central to Kenya's first multi-party elections in 1992, during which she strove for free and fair elections. She went on to serve in the Kenyan government as the Assistant Minister for the Department of Environment and Natural Resources from 2003 to 2007. Her deep connection with the environment led her to found a pan-African environmental organisation, the Green Belt Movement (GBM), whose goal was to reduce poverty and promote environmental conservation. She was a fierce advocate for women, serving on the National Council of Women of Kenya for 11 years and uplifting the lives of women through her work with the GBM. Her contributions were recognised in 2004 when she was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. She continued her inspirational work, founding the Wangari Institute for Peace and Environmental Studies in partnership with the University of Nairobi, chairing global initiatives to protect African forest regions, and was appointed a United Nations Messenger of Peace on environmental and climate change. Wangari Maathai left a lasting impact on our continent and the world, and through this award we form a continuity of her spirit, and recognise the next generation of impactful Africans.
Sponsorship Prospectus Kambule and Maathai Awards Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
