Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Arielle Pardes Gear Everything Big Google Announced at I/O Today Jeff Chiu/AP Save this story Save Save this story Save In the past, Google's mission was to organize the world's information, making it possible to know the size of a great white shark or the capital of Belarus with a few keystrokes. These days, Google has greater ambitions. This much was clear at Google I/O , the company's annual developer conference, which kicked off this morning at Google headquarters in Mountain View, California. Executives presented their vision for the future of the company—one where its services work everywhere, for everyone, and for everything.
Google is doing this in ways both big and small. It’s trying to make the Google Assistant work more seamlessly in your life—so that, for example, you can simply say “Stop” to turn off the alarm on your smart speaker or ask it to do a few things without having to say “Hey Google” between every request. It's helping automate some of the inane tasks of online life, like filling out web forms, with Google Duplex.
 It’s also drilling down on its mission to merge the digital world with the physical one. Want to understand the scale of that great white shark? Look it up on Google—then bring the shark to life before your eyes in augmented reality.
All of this came together in a keynote speech with CEO Sundar Pichai and other Google executives. Missed the show? You can watch the whole thing here , read a play-by-play on WIRED’s liveblog , or read on for the TL;DR.
Google For years, the price of a smartphone has steadily crept up, to the point where we now expect to spend $1,000 or more on a new one.
 Not anymore. Google’s latest Pixel devices, the Pixel 3a and 3a Plus , pack all of the premium features at half the price. For $400, you get some of the Pixel’s best tricks—night sight in the camera, an adaptive battery, augmented reality built into Google Maps—plus a headphone jack! You won’t find bells and whistles like wireless charging or a 1440p display—but for all the money you’ll save, we don’t think you’ll notice the difference.
Read WIRED's review of the Pixel 3a here.
 Both phones go on sale May 8.
Whether you opt for a new Pixel 3a or stick with your old Android phone, you’ll soon be able to do a whole lot more, thanks to the newest version of Android. The as yet unnamed Android Q comes with some cool updates, like a Smart Reply feature that works across all your messaging apps and a Live Caption tool that translates videos when the sound isn’t on. The key here, Google says, is that none of this data leaves your phone—the focus is on-device machine learning. You can more easily monitor your app permissions, and Google will prompt you to review which apps have access to data like your location. For families, new parental controls offer better oversight of kids’ screen time, and a new Focus Mode lets you neuter distracting apps like email and the news when you’re trying to be productive.
Android Q also offers a glimpse at what Google sees as the future of mobile technology: It’s built to support foldable phones, 5G connectivity, and Dark Mode. A beta version is now available on more than 21 Android devices, with the full thing rolling out later this year.
Google says Assistant can now deliver answers and respond to requests up to 10 times faster. During an onstage demo, Google showed how you can fluidly switch between tasks and toggle across apps without having to say “Hey Google” between requests. Assistant can also better understand the difference between requesting an action, like a command to “send an email to Jessica,” and dictating the message itself. This zippier Assistant comes to Pixel phones later this year.
A few other on-phone features: Personal References lets Google Assistant better understand what you mean when you say “What’s the weather like at Mom’s house” or “Show me pictures of my son.” And Driving Mode pulls up a personalized dashboard designed for when you’re in the car. Say “Hey Google, let’s drive” and it surfaces the things you’re most likely to need while driving—your favorite podcasts, the navigation screen—with voice controls to control everything hands-free. That feature will be available this summer on Android phones with the Google Assistant.
Remember Duplex , Google’s eerily humanlike bot that can make restaurant reservations and schedule appointments for you over the phone? Now it can help you on the web too. Let’s say you’re traveling to San Francisco and need to rent a car. Open the car rental website and Duplex automatically fills in all of the required fields—the dates of your trip, your time of arrival, and so on—without you entering anything. You can double-check that everything is right before booking. Definitely not creepy.
Last year, Google introduced a set of accessibility apps called Live Transcribe and Sound Amplifier , aimed at the 466 million people in the world who are deaf or hard of hearing. Those apps leveraged Google’s speech-to-text smarts to transcribe conversations in real time.
Now, Google has a few new tricks. An assistive chat feature called Live Relay gives people the option to “type” instead of talk on a phone call. Pichai suggested the feature could make phone calls easier for those whose speech can be difficult to understand—those who have suffered strokes, who are deaf, or who have ALS. To that end, Google is also building out a bigger data set of voices to train its technology, so that Google Assistant and other voice interfaces can better understand those who have nontypical speech patterns.
Photograph: Google Google’s new smart display, the Nest Hub Max , works like a command center for your smart home. It can control your Nest Thermostat or your smart lights. It has a camera, so you can use it to watch cooking tutorials on YouTube, and a microphone, so you can shout at Google Assistant to turn off the timer. (You can now use a hand-waving gesture for that too.) The camera and microphone also support video chat—but if having a camera-enabled device in your home freaks you out, there’s a physical toggle to turn them both off. Like Google’s other home devices, this one supports multiple users.
Voice Match recognizes each person in your household by the sound of their voice, and the new Face Match tells them apart through the camera. It ships this summer for $229; the older Nest Hub (née Google Home Hub) is now $129.
Like everyone else in Silicon Valley, Google is getting serious about your privacy. At least, that’s what it wants you to think. Today’s presentation included more than a few mentions of Google’s commitment to privacy and some features to let you better control it. You can now enable Incognito Mode in Google Maps, so that the places you search and navigate won’t be linked to your account; soon, you’ll be able to do the same in YouTube. All of your privacy and security settings have been moved to a more accessible place on your Google account, with the most relevant controls appearing first. And you can now choose to auto-delete your data after a certain number of months.
Why I love my teeny-tiny knockoff Nokia Donald Glover, Adidas, Nike, and the fight for cool The quietly lucrative business of donating human eggs Are we there yet? A reality check on self-driving cars The Battle of Winterfell: a tactical analysis 📱 Torn between the latest phones? Never fear—check out our iPhone buying guide and favorite Android phones 📩 Hungry for even more deep dives on your next favorite topic? Sign up for the Backchannel newsletter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Senior Writer X Topics Google Sundar Pichai Julian Chokkattu Boone Ashworth Medea Giordano Justin Pot Scott Gilbertson Matt Jancer Eric Ravenscraft Simon Hill WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
