Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Tom Simonite Business Google and Microsoft Can Use AI to Extract Many More Ad Dollars from Our Clicks Ben Bours Save this story Save Save this story Save When Google and Microsoft boast of their deep investments in artificial intelligence and machine learning, they highlight flashy ideas like unbeatable Go players and sociable chatbots.
 They talk less often about one of the most profitable, and more mundane, uses for recent improvements in machine learning: boosting ad revenue.
AI-powered moonshots like driverless cars and relatable robots will doubtless be lucrative when—or if—they hit the market. There’s a whole lot of money to be made right now by getting fractionally more accurate at predicting your clicks.
Many online ads are only paid for when someone clicks on them, so showing you the right ones translates very directly into revenue. A recent research paper from Microsoft’s Bing search unit notes that “even a 0.1 percent accuracy improvement in our production would yield hundreds of millions of dollars in additional earnings.” It goes on to claim an improvement of 0.9 percent on one accuracy measure over a baseline system.
Google, Microsoft, and other internet giants understandably do not share much detail on their ad businesses’ operations. But the Bing paper and recent publications from Google and Alibaba offer a sense of the profit potential of deploying new AI ideas inside ad systems. They all describe significant gains in predicting ad clicks using deep learning , the machine learning technique that sparked the current splurge of hope and investment in AI.
Google CEO Sundar Pichai has taken to describing his company as “AI first.” Its balance sheet is definitively ads first. Google reported $22.7 billion in ad revenue for its most recent quarter, comprising 87 percent of parent company Alphabet’s revenue.
Earlier this month, researchers from Google’s New York office released a paper on a new deep learning system to predict ad clicks that might help expand those ad dollars further. The authors note that a company with a large user base can greatly increase revenues with “a small improvement,” then show their new method beats other systems “by a large amount.” It did so while also requiring much less computing power to operate.
Alibaba, the Chinese ecommerce company and one of the world’s largest retailers, also has people thinking about boosting its billions in annual ad revenue with deep learning. A June paper describes something called a deep interest network , which can predict what product ads a user will click. It was tested on anonymized logs from some of the hundreds of millions of people who use its site each day.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Alibaba’s researchers tout the power of deep learning to outperform conventional recommendation algorithms, which can sometimes stumble on the sheer diversity of users’ online lives. For example, a young man may sometimes be shopping for himself and sometimes for kids clothing.
It’s hard to know what effect deep learning is having on tech giants’ ad revenues. Many factors affect the online ad markets, and companies don’t reveal everything about their technology or businesses. Google has reported steady growth in ad revenue for many years ; Microsoft has called out strong growth in Bing search ad revenue and in average revenue per search in its past five quarterly earnings releases.
Google declined to say how close its recently published click-prediction system is to what it uses in its ad business. Researcher Gang Fu said in an email that there is still much more potential for using machine learning in ads. "It is still a technically challenging problem and also any (even slight) improvement on model accuracy would have great impact for many organizations," he wrote. Microsoft tells WIRED that it constantly tests new machine learning technologies in its advertising system. In an email, John Cosley, director of marketing for Microsoft search advertising, described ads as "perhaps by far the most lucrative application of AI [and] machine learning in the industry.” Related Stories Business Marcus Wohlsen Business Klint Finley Mo Data, Mo Money.
Tom Simonite Research papers on using deep learning for ads may undersell both its true power and the challenge of tapping into it. Companies carefully scrub publications to avoid disclosing corporate secrets. And researchers tend to describe simplified versions of the problems faced by engineers who must target and serve ads at huge scale and speed, says Suju Rajan, head of research at computational advertising company Criteo. The company has released anonymized logs of millions of ad clicks that Google and others have used in papers on improving click predictions.
Perhaps not surprisingly, Rajan believes deep learning still has much more to offer the ad industry. For example, it could figure out long-term cause and effect relationships between what you see or do online today and what you click on or buy next week. “Being able to model the timeline of user interest is something that the deep models are able to do a lot better,” she says.
That Google and Microsoft are getting better at predicting our desires and clicks can be seen as a good thing. It gets them closer to the long-sought goal of serving up ads that don’t feel like ads because they’re useful. And it helps advertisers reach the people they want to reach.
But online ad companies are also subject to incentives less well aligned with consumers or other companies. Benjamin Edelman, a professor at Harvard Business School, has published research suggesting Google search is biased toward the company’s own services and designed to unfairly force corporations into spending heavily on ads for their own trademarks. (Google has been fined $2.7 billion for the former and successfully defended multiple lawsuits alleging the latter.) Such market-warping practices could be boosted by machine learning too. “If machine learning can improve the efficiency of their advertising platform by showing the right ad to the right guy, then more power to them—they are creating value,” Edelman says. “But a lot of the things that Google has done haven’t enlarged the market.” In advertising, as in many other areas, AI can give tech companies great power —and responsibility.
UPDATED: 11:50 am ET, September 1. This story has been updated to include comment from Google.
Senior Editor X Topics artificial intelligence Google Microsoft Advertising Paresh Dave Will Knight Khari Johnson Paresh Dave Gregory Barber Niamh Rowe Khari Johnson Steven Levy Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
