Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Will Knight Business Many Top AI Researchers Get Financial Backing From Big Tech Illustration: Sam Whitney Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Ethics Company Alphabet Amazon Microsoft Google Facebook Nvidia End User Research Sector Education Research As a grad student working on artificial intelligence , Mohamed Abdalla could probably walk into a number of well-paid industry jobs. Instead, he wants to draw attention to how Big Tech’s big bucks may be warping the perspective of his field.
Abdalla, who is finishing his PhD at the University of Toronto, has coauthored a paper highlighting the number of top AI researchers—including those who study the ethical challenges raised by the technology—who receive funding from tech companies. That can be a particular problem, he says, when corporate AI systems raise ethical issues, such as algorithmic bias , military use , or questions about the fairness and accuracy of face recognition programs.
Abdalla found that more than half of tenure-track AI faculty at four prominent universities who disclose their funding sources have received some sort of backing from Big Tech. Abdalla says he doesn’t believe any of those faculty are acting unethically, but he thinks their funding could bias their work—even unconsciously. He suggests universities introduce rules to raise awareness of potential conflicts of interest.
Industry funding for academic research is nothing new, of course. The flow of capital, ideas, and people between companies and universities is part of a vibrant innovation ecosystem. But large tech companies now wield unprecedented power, and the importance of cutting-edge AI algorithms to their businesses has led them to tap academia for talent.
Students with AI expertise can command large salaries at tech firms , but companies also back important research and young researchers with grants and fellowships. Many top AI professors have been lured away to tech companies or work part-time at those companies. Besides money, large companies can offer computational resources and data sets that most universities cannot match.
By Tom Simonite A paper published in July by researchers from the University of Rochester and China’s Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business found that Google, DeepMind, Amazon, and Microsoft hired 52 tenure-track professors between 2004 and 2018. It concluded that this “brain drain” has coincided with a drop in the number of students starting AI companies.
The growing reach and power of Big Tech prompted Abdalla to question how it influences his field in more subtle ways.
Together with his brother, also a graduate student, Abdalla looked at how many AI researchers at Stanford, MIT, UC Berkeley, and the University of Toronto have received funding from Big Tech over their careers.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker The Abdallas examined the CVs of 135 computer science faculty who work on AI at the four schools, looking for indications that the researcher had received funding from one or more tech companies. For 52 of those, they couldn’t make a determination. Of the remaining 83 faculty, they found that 48, or 58 percent, had received funding such as a grant or a fellowship from one of 14 large technology companies: Alphabet, Amazon, Facebook, Microsoft, Apple, Nvidia, Intel, IBM, Huawei, Samsung, Uber, Alibaba, Element AI, or OpenAI. Among a smaller group of faculty that works on AI ethics, they also found that 58 percent of those had been funded by Big Tech. When any source of funding was included, including dual appointments, internships, and sabbaticals, 32 out of 33, or 97 percent, had financial ties to tech companies. “There are very few people that don't have some sort of connection to Big Tech,” Abdalla says.
Adballa says industry funding is not necessarily compromising, but he worries that it might have some influence, perhaps discouraging researchers from pursuing certain projects or prompting them to agree with solutions proposed by tech companies. Provocatively, the Abdallas’ paper draws parallels between Big Tech funding for AI research and the way tobacco companies paid for research into the health effects of smoking in the 1950s.
“I think that the vast majority of researchers are unaware,” he says. “They are not actively seeking to push one agenda or the other.” Others in the field of AI are concerned by the influence of industry money. At the year’s biggest gathering of AI researchers, a new workshop, called Resistance In AI, will look at how AI “has been concentrating power in the hands of governments and companies and away from marginalized communities.” But ties to industry are pervasive and often found across groups that examine ethical uses of AI. For instance, two out of the three cochairs of the Fairness, Accountability and Transparency conference, a prominent event that looks at the societal impact of AI, work for Alphabet subsidiaries.
Kristian Lum, a statistician at the nonprofit Human Rights Data Analysis Group , who is on the conference’s executive committee, says the conference, like other events, receives corporate sponsorships. But she says the conference’s policies state that the sponsors do not have control over the content or speakers. Lum says those involved with the conference are careful to disclose potential conflicts of interest.
“There are very few people that don't have some sort of connection to Big Tech.” Mohamed Abdalla, PhD student, University of Toronto “Big Tech does have a lot of power,” says Lum, whose employer is funded by foundations.
 “I do think it’s something that people are increasingly aware of.” Others say the issue is more complicated.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Meredith Whittaker, a research scientist at NYU, previously worked for Google on a project that connected the company with academic research. She also led protests inside the company in 2018 against its policies on sexual misconduct and surveillance.
“People know who pays them,” she says. But she says it’s unfair to assume that someone funded by a company cannot be critical of Big Tech. She says several researchers who work at tech companies are critical of their employer’s technology. And she says pushback within companies can help check their power. “Worker organizing and worker dissent are only increasing as the status of this technology becomes more and more apparent,” she says.
A spokesperson for Google says the company’s policies prohibit staff from seeking to influence academic work. “Google’s collaborations with academic and research institutions are not driven by policy influence in any way,” the spokesperson says. “We are a huge supporter of academic research because it allows us to work with academics who are looking to solve the same problems that we are.” Ben Recht , a professor at UC Berkeley, has previously criticized the idea of researchers simultaneously working for a university and a company. But he doesn’t think corporate funding for AI should be seen as inherently bad. “You can make a capitalist argument that it is good for companies to pursue ethical technology,” he says. “I think that this is something that many of them strive to do.” Recht also points out that even without industry funding, academics can produce ethically questionable work, like the algorithms that underpin face recognition or those that help turn social media platforms into echo chambers and sources of misinformation. And Recht also notes that the money that flows from government agencies, including the military, can also influence the direction of research.
For his part, Abdalla worries that drawing attention to the ties between Big Tech and academia might affect his prospects of getting a job, because professors are often expected to help bring in funding. “I was told not to push this,” he says.
📩 Want the latest on tech, science, and more? Sign up for our newsletters ! The cheating scandal that ripped the poker world apart The 20-Year hunt for the man behind the Love Bug virus There's no better time to be an amateur radio geek The 15 TV shows you need to binge this fall Could a tree help find a decaying corpse nearby ? 🎧 Things not sounding right? Check out our favorite wireless headphones , soundbars , and Bluetooth speakers Senior Writer X Topics artificial intelligence Silicon Valley Google research Amanda Hoover Will Knight Susan D'Agostino Will Knight Vittoria Elliott Niamh Rowe Will Knight Caitlin Harrington Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
