Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Caleb Garling Business AC/DC Battle Returns to Rock Data-Center World Save this story Save Save this story Save The battle between AC and DC goes back centuries.
In the late 1800s, Thomas Edison fought viciously for DC (direct current) power, where the electrical current moves in a single direction. But fellow inventors Nikola Tesla and George Westinghouse fought just as hard for alternating current (AC), which regularly reverses direction. Ultimately, Tesla and Westinghouse won this " War of the Currents ," thanks in large part to a massive AC hydroelectric plant built at Niagara Falls in 1889 that powered most of New York. But more than 120 years later, the argument has resurfaced inside the data center.
AC power continues to drive the modern data centers underpinning the world's businesses and internet applications, with DC playing a supporting role. But DC power has long been touted as a way to reduce the ridiculous amounts of power consumed by these massive computing facilities, and a new study hopes to catalyze its widespread adoption.
The study comes from the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) , a not-for-profit based in Palo Alto, California, and it details a set of experiments performed at a data center operated by Duke Power in Charlotte, North Carolina. With their experiments, Dennis Symanski and his team tried to balance the power to the servers equally between AC and DC sources, performing multiple load tests on each, with equipment in various states of operation (on, off, idle).
The results of six different tests show that the DC power system exhibited an energy savings ranging from 14.9 percent (when all servers and storage arrays were run at full power) to 15.8 percent (when the servers were turned on, but idle). On average, DC improved efficiency about 15.3 percent over AC systems.
Today, direct current is used for massive trans-continental power lines, reaching more than 500,000 volts. But AC is the standard for local power grids, and it's what powers devices plugged into the wall at home. In the end, however, most of those devices convert the AC current back to DC. "When Edison lost, we didn't have today's technologies. Things were mostly motors, and AC made sense for that," Symanski tells Wired. "But now, just about everything in your house runs on DC." Changing the entire grid is one matter. But revamping the data center is another. Today's data centers are anything but the picture of efficiency (See the top picture below). Data centers typically convert AC power from the grid into DC power to charge their uninterruptable power supply (UPS) batteries -- which provide back-up power when there's even the flicker of an outage from the grid. But that DC current must then be converted back to a lower AC as it enters the center's power distribution units (PDU), and then it returns to DC when it hits the server racks.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Until someone invents the perpetual motion machine -- a contraption with a net energy loss of zero, that would defy the laws of physics -- these conversions will always waste some amount of energy. Symanski argues that simply keeping everything in the data center on DC power will save at least three energy-wasting conversions: at the UPS, at the PDU, and at the front end of the power supply unit (PSU) on servers. (As seen in the second half of the figure above). EPRI is also calling for a worldwide standard DC voltage of 380, as they believe this level hits a "sweet spot" that meshes well with common power requirements and safety regulations.
As data center designers turn away from the cumbersome power grid -- and toward the sun and the wind for their energy -- DC will certainly make its way into the data center. Photovoltaic cells and wind turbines only generate DC power. But the progress of DC power is limited by the companies that make other data center equipment. Changing the servers is relatively simple. They just need new power supplies, Symanski says, as everything else on the server uses DC. But most other infrastructure equipment runs on AC power.
Dave Cappuccio, an analyst at Gartner, believes shifting to DC power is a fine idea. But he points out that there are countless other ways for the average data center manager to improve efficiency -- through cooling systems, ventilation, etc.
"People have been talking about [using DC power] for years," he tells Wired, pointing out that Facebook's new data center in Prineville, Oregon, has made the push toward DC. But hospitals, banks, utilities and other operations have so many other ways to reduce power and save money, he says, that it could be some time before they really embrace DC power. Cappuccio hopes that Facebook's efforts to open their blueprints and share efficiency measures will be that needed spark. But he's skeptical.
"A lot of things are good -- but it doesn't mean you can afford them all." [Top photo: The Planet/Flickr] Contributor X X Topics data Energy Enterprise Facebook Gregory Barber Will Knight Gregory Barber Matt Reynolds Vittoria Elliott Aarian Marshall Will Knight Will Knight Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
