Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Cade Metz Business What Is a Virtual Network? It's Not What You Think It Is Save this story Save Save this story Save Steve Herrod envisions a world where we build entire data centers using nothing but software.
His dream isn't unexpected. Steve Herrod is the chief technology officer at VMWare.
 For more than a decade, VMware has helped the world's businesses move their computing applications onto virtual servers, machines that exist only as software, and now, Herrod and company are working to expand the world of virtual computing, so that applications run atop not only virtual servers but completely virtual networks.
On Wednesday morning, on stage at a tradeshow in Las Vegas , Herrod will herald the age of the "software-defined data center." It's a play off another term that's been much-hyped across Silicon Valley in recent months: "software-defined networking," or SDN. It's an unfortunate term, for many reasons. But behind the name -- and the hype -- there's very real technology that will let us build networks using nothing but software, and VMware is just one of many companies pushing this technology forward, including Cisco, Microsoft, Intel, and -- most notably -- a swashbuckling startup called Nicira.
"We're at a new moment in time," Herrod tells Wired. "A lot of what we've done on the compute side of virtualization can translate into networking." So it can. The trouble is that this movement is widely misunderstood. Part of the problem is that "software-defined networking" is one of those ridiculously broad terms that so many companies have suddenly slapped on their once and future products in an effort keep up with the Joneses of the tech world. It's "the cloud" all over again. But the other issue is that computer networking isn't the easiest thing to wrap your head around. And things only get more difficult when you try wrapping it around a virtual network.
Of course, a decade ago, virtual servers boggled the brain. And now, according to research outfit IDC, they run close to 65 percent of all server tasks on earth.
Google Goes With the Open Flow At the highest level, the SDN movement is an effort to build networks you can program -- just as you can program a computer. "Software-defined networking is applying modularity to network control," Scott Shenker, a Berkley professor and one of the co-founders of Nicira tells Wired.
 "Modularity is something every software designer does in their sleep. If a program isn’t modular, it’s just spaghetti code. Software-defined networking asks what are the right software abstractions that let us structure the network control plane so it’s evolvable, so it's not just a bunch of spaghetti code." The term originated with Shenker and the two other co-founders of Nicira: Stanford professor Nick McKeown and one of McKeown's Ph.D. students, Martin Casado, who now serves as the company's chief technology officer. Nicira was founded in 2007, and while still in "stealth mode" -- meaning it wasn't talking to the press -- the company spearheaded the development of a technology called OpenFlow, an effort to build a standard protocol for controlling network hardware with software.
"Think of it as a general language or an instruction set that lets me write a control program for the network rather than having to rewrite all of code on each individual router," says Shenker. Traditionally, when you bought networking hardware, you were forced to use the control software supplied by the company that built that hardware. But with OpenFlow, you could build your own software.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker The technology soon found a home at the biggest name on the internet: Google. About two years ago, as Google recently revealed , the company built a new breed of networking hardware it could control with OpenFlow, and it used this hardware to rebuild the links between the massive data centers it operates across the globe. In part because of Google's involvement, OpenFlow was soon caught up in the Silicon Valley hype machine, with many going so far as to say it would bury networking hardware giants such as Cisco and Juniper.
>"Google really threw a lot of people at the problem. None of my customers can afford that" But OpenFlow is just a small piece of the puzzle. You can't use OpenFlow unless you have hardware that supports it, and even with the hardware in place, you still have to build a network controller that uses the protocol. This is what Google did, working in tandem with Nicira engineers and others.
Ivan Pepelnjak -- a consultant who helps companies build network and runs a blog dedicated to networking issues called ipSpace.net -- points out that is sort of undertaking is not something the average company is capable of. "Google really threw a lot of people at the problem," he tells Wired. "None of my customers can afford that." Yes, some of the traditional networking vendors are working on gear that use OpenFlow, and others are building controllers that use the technology. But Nicira chief technology officer Martin Casado -- one of the driving forces behind the creation of the technology -- believes that in the grand scheme of things, OpenFlow isn't all that important. Nicira has set its sights well beyond the technology, creating a network controller that lets you build virtual networks -- i.e., networking that operate independently of the network hardware running beneath them. And companies such as VMware and Microsoft are looking to do much the same thing.
Networks Go Virtual To build its virtual networks, Nicira created a new type of virtual networking switch, known as Open vSwitch. But it also a built a "tunneling protocol" called STT (Stateless Transport Tunneling). A tunneling protocol lets you run one network protocol over a network that's built for different protocol. In short, STT lets you transport Ethernet data inside packets that use the Internet Protocol, or IP -- the protocol used to connect machines on the internet.
The result is that you can build a virtual network that runs atop existing hardware from any networking vendor, including Cisco, Juniper, or some company in Taiwan building low-cost gear.
 Nicira came out of stealth mode early this year, saying that its customers already include AT&T, eBay, Japanese telecom NTT, financial giant Fidelity, and Rackspace, the Texas outfit that competes with Amazon in the cloud computing game.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker At Rackspace, the technology underpins the beta version of Cloud Servers, an Amazon-like web service that provides virtual infrastructure to companies and independent developers across the globe. With Nicira, Rackspace can readily create multiple virtual networks for each customer -- without creating separate physical networks.
Yes, you can already do this sort of thing with a technology called a Virtual LAN, or VLAN. But VLANs have their limits. In essence, a VLAN is created by adding an extra tag to Ethernet data packets, or frames. Frames with separate tags belong to separate networks. But because each tag is only 12 bits long, you can only create only about 4,000 virtual networks on each physical network. "It was a very simple hack," says Pepelnjak.
Nicira's controller busts through this limitation -- and goes several steps further. "Once you have your switch virtualized, you can pretty much do whatever you want with it," says Rackspace chief technology officer John Engates. "You can route traffic however you like, and you can reprogram it whenever you like, on the fly." This is quite different from what Google and other companies are doing with OpenFlow. Google is using OpenFlow to control its network hardware, but with Nicira's controller, you can build a virtual network that doesn't depend on the hardware at all. The hardware beneath this virtual network is merely used to forward packets, and the rest of the network is built with software -- i.e., how packets are routed, how security is handled, etc.
The Skype Analogy The confusion comes because OpenFlow and virtual networks are often tossed into the same bucket: software defined networking. Nicira actually uses OpenFlow to build its virtual networks, but the two are far from synonymous. OpenFlow is not a virtual network, and a virtual network is not OpenFlow.
"OpenFlow is just one of the tools," Pepelnjak says. "If you want to put together a wooden rack. You need wood. You need drills. You need screws. You need screwdrivers. OpenFlow is like the screwdriver. It's very good tool. It's a useful tool. But it's only a tool." What's more, the virtual networking moniker is often applied to several different technologies that are only partially related. Nicira's network controller, for instance, is sometimes compared to a pair of technologies known as VXLAN and NRGRE. But these are different things as well. VXLAN and NRGRE are tunneling protocols along the lines of Nicira's STT, and in order to build a true virtual network atop these protocols, you still need a network controller.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Steve Herrod and VMware back the VXLAN protocol, joining forces with network hardware giant Cisco, while NVGRE is backed by Microsoft, Intel, and Dell. Naturally, each camp sees it tunneling protocol as the best option. But according to Ivan Pepelnjak -- an independent voice -- Nicira is currently ahead of competitors because it has already built a complete network controller that uses its tunneling protocol.
>"In a small office, you can shout. On a big campus, you need something more." Pepelnjak says that building virtual network is like building a system that sends voice over IP -- like Skype, for instance. "It's like when you had voice running over traditional PBXs and then some said, 'Let's move that to IP' and we got Skype," he says. In his mind, using VXLAN and NVGRE today is still "hacks," whereas Nicira has done "the proper job" in building a complete network controller. Nicira has built the equivalent of Skype, he says, whereas the efforts are still short of this.
"Skype has a way of taking your Skype handle and turning it into your IP address, so I can call you, and you need something similar with VXLAN, NVGRE, and STT," he says. "The others have just emulated Ethernet over IP, but Nicira has done the proper job with a central controller. It's like the Skype directory service." Part of the difference, he says, is that you can build far more virtual networks with a controller in place than you can without. "It is the only way to truly scale." With some networks, VXLAN or NVGRE may give you everything you need, he says, but if you're provide virtual networks to a world of users, as Rackspace is, you may need more. "If you have hundreds of thousands of servers like Rackspace has...you need a controller," Pepelnjak says. "In a small office, you can shout. On a big campus, you need something more." In any event, similar controllers will be built atop by VXLAN and NVGRE, and these will compete with Nicira. Steve Herrod and Martin Casado disagree on whose technology is best positioned to reach the largest audience, but both are quite sure that virtual networking is the future. And it is. The world doesn't quite understand it yet. But it will.
Senior Writer X Topics Cisco data Enterprise Infrastructure Intel Microsoft networking nicira software VMware VR Nelson C.J.
Peter Guest Andy Greenberg Khari Johnson Joel Khalili David Gilbert Kari McMahon Jacopo Prisco Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
