Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Cade Metz Business Twitter's New AI Recognizes Porn So You Don't Have To vector background Pattern optical illusion Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Clément Farabet deals in artificial intelligence. As a research scientist at New York University, he built brain-like computing systems that identified objects in photos and videos, and then he launched a startup where he did much the same thing. He and his co-founder called it Madbits , and 18 months later, Twitter snapped it up.
Madbits had no customers. And no one beyond the two companies knew quite what Twitter would do with the five-person startup. But Alex Roetter knew. When Farabet and his MadBits crew joined Twitter last summer, Roetter—the company's head of engineering—told them to build a system that could automatically identify NSFW images on its popular social network.
"When you do an acquisition—even though they're coming in to do something broad—you want to give them something specific, so you get to know each other and make sure the acquisition works," Roetter says. "So we gave them the problem of NSFW." A year later, that AI is in place. According to Farabet, if you tune the system to identify about 99 percent of all porn and other objectionable images—allowing the company to warn users with interstitials in the Twitter timeline —it will incorrectly flag perfectly acceptable pics just 7 percent of the time. These numbers are entirely dependent on Twitter's definition of NSFW, of course. But taken at face value, they represent a significant step forward for social networks like Twitter and Facebook.
A central AI operation—dubbed Twitter Cortex—will help provide machine learning tasks across the company.
As WIRED reported last year , companies like Twitter and Facebook typically pay workers to comb through the unending stream of photos filling its vast social network and identify inappropriate images, including porn, sexual solicitation, racism, and gore. Roetter says Twitter has used human-powered services like CrowdFlower for such work. With an AI system like the one Farabet and other engineers built, a company can significantly reduce the number of people needed to pore over dick pics, dildos, and beheadings. That's faster and cheaper. And it doesn't place that enormous mental and emotional toll on as many laborers in places like the Philippines.
But this rather pointed task is just the beginning for Farabet and his team. In tackling the NSFW problem, the Madbits crew—though still working out of New York—dovetailed with other machine learning specialists in Twitter's San Francisco office, including Siva Gurumurthy and Utkarsh Srivastava.
 Now they're joining forces with WhetLab , an AI startup in Boston that Twitter acquired three weeks ago. The result is a central AI operation—dubbed Twitter Cortex—that will help provide machine learning tasks across the company.
These might include identifying people you should follow; curbing spam and abuse; and displaying tweets, ads, and other content you'll probably enjoy. The company already does all of these things. But the breed of AI provided by Madbits and WhetLab can do it better. Much better. Roetter says the company already is using Twitter Cortex technologies to improve its ad system, and eventually, it will analyze the company's entire corpus of tweets, "so we can better classify them and figure out what you might be interested in." Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Twitter Cortex mirrors work at companies like Google and Facebook. Like Twitter, these Internet giants are building teams dedicated to what's called deep learning , an umbrella term for a breed of computing system that mimics the web of neurons in the human brain. Facebook now uses these "neural networks" to identify faces in photos.
 Google uses them to recognize the words you bark into the Google Now personal assistant on your Android phone. Microsoft uses them to translate Skype conversations from one language to another.
 The technology represents a near future where machines can perform many tasks previously limited to human—and, in some cases, where machines outperform humans.
Deep learning algorithms can "learn" certain tasks by analyzing vast amounts of data. They can learn to carry on a decent conversation, for instance, by analyzing old movie dialogue.
 They can learn to identify porn by analyzing—well, you get the picture.
Since acquiring Madbits, Twitter has built such neural nets inside its data centers, using machines equipped with graphics processing units, or GPUs. Chip makers like nVidia created GPUs to quickly render large images for games and other software applications, but they've proven quite adept at running deep learning algorithms.
Neural nets are particularly ripe for this kind of magnanimous recursion.
Though Roetter and Farabet decline to reveal the size of these neural networks, these probably are much smaller than what is already running at Google and Facebook. But they're already identifying NSFW photos on Twitter's live service with what would seem to be impressive accuracy. And according to David Luan, whose startup, Dextro, works to identify similar photos for other companies , spotting images on Twitter carries unusual challenges, because the company must serve content across its network in near real-time.
It should be noted that this kind of algorithm is far from perfect—and identifying something like porn is particularly difficult. After all, Twitter also serves up images of half-naked babies and breast-feeding mothers. That's not porn, but a computer needs to be trained to tell the difference. "There's so much variation, and often, this is not just limited to one type of content," Luan says. "It's not just porn. It's violence and other stuff." Just last week, on the new Google Photo app, the company's neural networks identified black people as gorillas—an egregious mistake and a sign that there are so many kinks to iron out in even seemingly simple deep learning tasks. "Machine learning," Luan says, "always makes mistakes." Considering that some 100,000 people spend their days identifying NSFW images , Twitter has applied the technology in the right place. Presumably, other companies, including Facebook, are working on similar systems (Facebook was unable to participate in this story).
In teaching a neural net to identify NSFW images, humans must first spend time tagging the kind of photos that should be identified. But as time goes on—and the neural net continues to learn—the need for this tagging diminishes. "You need human, generally, to label the data," Roetter says. "But then, going forward, the model is applied to cases you've never seen before, so you dramatically cut down the need for people. And it's lower latency, of course, because the model can do it in real-time." Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Twitter acquired WhetLab in an effort to improve its models at a faster rate. The startup uses a technique called " bayesian optimization " to fine-tune its neural nets. As WhetLab founder Ryan Adams describes it, the company uses "machine learning to improve machine learning." In other words, a neural net can analyze the performance of a neural net to improve a neural net.
"It creates this really interesting amplifying effect," says Adams, a former Harvard computer science professor.
 "You can take your limited resources and talent and really affect a lot of things very rapidly by automating so much of the process." The may sound like little more than talk. But this is the way computer science works —and neural nets are particularly ripe for this kind of magnanimous recursion. The magic of neural nets is that they improve over time. In short, they work like your brain. They doesn't work exactly like your brain, but they work well enough to correctly identify porn—at least most of the time. That's no small thing.
Correction: This story originally misstated when Twitter acquired WhetLabs. It acquired the company three weeks ago. Originally, the story also said that Twitter has used TaskRabbit to label data. It has not. It has used services such as CrowdFlower.
Senior Writer X Topics artificial intelligence deep learning Enterprise Facebook Google twitter Morgan Meaker Reece Rogers Nelson C.J.
Peter Guest Khari Johnson Andy Greenberg Joel Khalili Kari McMahon Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
