Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Tim Moynihan Gear Google Just Made It Way Easier to Scan Your Old Photos Google Save this story Save Save this story Save Google Photos is the best photo-management tool you can put on your phone, but it won’t do you any good if your favorite photos are all in a shoebox.
With a new app built to scan your prints, eliminate any glare you’d get from taking a picture of them, and keep them all straightened out in digital form, Google’s latest mobile app is good news for anyone with a bunch of packed Fotomat envelopes. It's bad news for anyone in the scanner or shoebox industries.
The new PhotoScan is a standalone app for both Android and iOS, and scanning a picture is a clever combination of manual shooting and computational photography. Once you take an initial photo of... a photo, the app recognizes the four corners of the frame and displays circular overlays on each corner of the scanned image. You then point your phone camera at each circle, create a robust scan of the image, and PhotoScan gets to work from there.
Google Unlike just shooting a smartphone photo of an image, which is a tricky dance of glare and shadows and blown-out details, the four-corner scanning process eliminates reflections and other aspects of digital deterioration. Like an old-school panorama app, PhotoScan stitches together a single image from those several overlapped photos, making sure to eliminate any glare-infected shots while evening out the overall exposure.
Once it’s captured, a photo is backed up online and added to your Google Photos library, where the app offers its standard face-recognition and manual enhancement tricks. It’ll be a great showcase for Google Photos’ facial recognition over time; the app is already really good at identifying the same person over the course of their life with its computer vision, and the onslaught of old scanned photos should be a brand-new test for the app’s impressive AI.
Along with the PhotoScan app, Google announced some new editing features for all Google Photos users: A new version of Auto Enhance that uses exposure and saturation levels inspired by pro photo editors, new controls for light and color levels, and a dozen new “looks” that go beyond your average Instagram filter by adapting their effects to the attributes of each photo.
The free PhotoScan will be available for Android and iOS starting today, while the new Google Photos updates should begin rolling out immediately as well.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Contributing Writer X Instagram Topics Apps computer vision Google Photography Simon Hill Eric Ravenscraft Jaina Grey Jaina Grey Adrienne So Adrienne So Brenda Stolyar Reece Rogers WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
