Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Klint Finley Business Facebook's Head of AI Wants to Teach Chatbots Common Sense Bryan Derballa for WIRED Save this story Save Save this story Save Facebook is already disconcertingly good at recognizing faces in photos. But the company's director of artificial intelligence research, Yann LeCun , wants to push AI even further. Today at the 2016 WIRED Business Conference , he said he wants to teach chatbots common sense.
One Genius’ Lonely Crusade to Teach a Computer Common Sense Soon We Won’t Program Computers. We’ll Train Them Like Dogs What the AI Behind AlphaGo Can Teach Us About Being Human That's an important part of Facebook's goal of enabling its Facebook M virtual assistant to actually understand the things you ask it to do. Today, Facebook M is powered in part by humans. But eventually Facebook wants to power the entire thing with AI.
LeCun is the founding father of deep learning, one of the most important branches of artificial intelligence today. Deep learning techniques are used for everything from the algorithms that filter your Facebook feed to Android's voice recognition system to Skype's cutting edge real-time translation tool. But while machines have gotten really good at recognizing voice commands and translating one human language into another, AIs still can't really understand language, LeCun explained.
Making that happen means teaching computers to learn in much the same way humans do. LeCun points out that babies learn to learn to associate words with objects by simply observing the world around them. It takes at least a couple years, but we humans are able to learn all this with relatively few examples, at least compared to the number of images that LeCun and company feed their computers. "So there's something we're missing about human and animal learning," he says. That missing thing, LeCun explains, is what we might call common sense.
To fill in that missing piece, he and his colleagues are working on what's called predictive learning. Today, the most popular way of training an AI is what's called supervised learning. Basically, if you want to teach an AI to recognize cars, you'll show it thousands or millions of pictures of cars, and eventually it will figure out the common attributes of a car—like wheels—and be able to spot cars in other photos. That's much easier than the old way doing things, which involved trying to manually program the system to recognize wheels and other common features of cars. But what LeCun and his team would rather do is let machines observe the world and figure out what cars are simply by seeing lots of them and noticing that people call them "cars." That's what humans do, after all.
Facebook is approaching these twin challenges–understanding language and predictive learning–together. LeCun explained that the company is trying to teach its AI systems to understand human language by having it essentially having it watch over the shoulders of the real humans who respond to queries on the Facebook M virtual assistant. But making it work will require more than just lots of conversations for the software to eavesdrop on. It means figuring out the LeCun and company are working hard to figure out the mathematical and conceptual pieces that are missing from their model.
And LeCun says Facebook can't do this alone. Predictive learning is more of a scientific problem than a technological one, he says. And that means doing research out in the open , the way scientists do. "Doing research in secret just doesn't work," he says.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Contributor X Topics artificial intelligence chatbots Facebook WIRED Business Conference 2016 Will Knight Khari Johnson Deidre Olsen Reece Rogers Reece Rogers Will Knight Morgan Meaker Reece Rogers Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
