Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Joel McHale Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions About Credits Released on 12/01/2020 What has Joel McHale done? Now I feel like you're accusing me of murder.
You're saying something like, What have you done!? [funky music] Hi, everybody.
It's me, Joel McHale.
Today I'll be doing the Wired Autocomplete Interview.
[funky music] Here we go, guys.
Why Joel McHale.
Why Joel McHale tiger king.
Why not? Well that fell into my lap because Ted Sarandos, basically, it was just like, Do you want to host the follow-up special to Tiger King? And COVID, it was just as they, it was like the week after it was all locked down.
You know, it was when you thought, Well, if I look at someone weird they're gonna get COVID or maybe I'm gonna get COVID if I look at them too long, I don't know.
So I got to host that thing and it's, I know it's a part of the actual series, but I had nothing to do with it.
I barely, I showed up, I recorded some things.
I did talk to those people for a very long time.
So even though that special is like 33 minutes long or something, I talked to each of them for like two hours.
It was, it was exhausting.
I don't know how I do it.
I don't know.
We almost got Joe Exotic, but the prison or the jail he was in got a COVID scare.
So that went away very quickly.
Why is Joel McHale famous? [laughing] That is a good question.
Why is Joel McHale podcast? Why? Why do we do a podcast? Ken is one of my good, good, good friends.
If not one of my great friends.
You know, I'm Joe, but he's a real doctor.
I mean he really knows what he's doing.
And I would call him and ask him about the virus.
And he, we kind of were like, hey, we should do a podcast and talk about this.
And then we'll talk to our friends after that.
And so that's how that started.
And Ken knows what he's talking about.
I just read articles and then pretend to know what I'm talking about.
Some publicist called me and be like, We would like to put our client on your podcast.
Can you please give us the name of your Booker? And I'm like, You're talking to 'em.
And, or Ken, or we're the bookers.
So Ken's been, you know, on the most successful shows on TV right now with The Masked Singer and I Can See Your Voice and all the other ones.
And so now I think he, that has kind of like, he's got a little more free time.
How Joel McHale, here we go.
How tall Joel McHale? Well I think everybody knows I'm 8'1.
But that's just the lower half, it's very long.
I am 6'4.
How old is Joel McHale? I am 48 years old.
So I could be your dad, in a lot of cases your granddad, so yeah.
So you know, let's see some respect.
48, yeah not for much longer, next week.
No, two weeks, I'm 49.
I'm 49.
How does Joel McHale...
stay in shape? Thanks for saying that.
That's right.
I'm doing an ab workout right now.
So I do like 40 minutes a day.
Sometimes if I got a little more free time, I'll do an hour.
But I try to carve out...
And everyone's like, Don't you take days off? I'm like, I do not.
I try to get it in every day somehow.
I want to eat spaghetti carbonara for every meal.
But if you operate at a caloric deficit, you'll not even stay in shape.
You'll look like you're in shape.
Thank you.
How much does Joel McHale make for card sharks? How much money do I make for card sharks? Oh, well yeah.
Well that's how I get paid.
I have to play the game myself.
So some weeks I'm making like over half a million dollars.
Other weeks, gift certificate.
So, but I just have to go out there and turn the cards over myself and then, and the producers always, you know, like, Come on, dude, keep going.
You gotta, you gotta four up there.
It's gotta be higher.
And then like, Oh, we're so sorry.
We're so sorry.
We're so sorry.
And now a kombucha break.
I'm kidding.
This is chilled red wine! Does Joel McHale.
There we go.
Does Joel McHale leave Community? No, I mean, I did.
I stayed with it all six years.
Other people left, but I certainly didn't.
Wait, did I? And it's still going.
Is that what happened? Does show still on? Does Joel McHale have lions? Yes, because I was paid in big cats for the Tiger King special.
Does Joel McHale have a brother? No, I don't.
I have two brothers.
Oooh! And people like, Oh, are you the oldest? And I'm like, No.
The youngest? No.
I'm like, I'm the middle.
And they'll go like, Totally.
That's why he became an actor.
Right, 'cause you, you just needed the attention and it doesn't mean you're in the middle.
What are you talking about? Yes, because if I had been the youngest one I would have to have been a pilot.
Their names are Chris and Steven.
We look alike.
Okay, does Joel McHale play accordion? [laughing] It's not play the accordion; it's play accordion.
I do not play the accordion.
I don't play any instrument.
Bang! Joel, these are all blanks.
This is Joel McHale and then just blanks.
Joel McHale...
The soup! Oh, takes you back, doesn't it? Yeah, that was the thing that helped me get the audition for, you know, like a zillion.
Like I did not expect that I was going to be a host at all in my career.
I think everyone thought I was the next, you know, Joel Edgerton.
No, I stumbled into that job and got very lucky because a couple of executives at E! decided to take a shot and it, we, boy, that's 2005, geez.
I didn't have a child then, or no did I? No I didn't even have a child then.
Yeah, those were the days I got to do that for 12 years.
It was really fun.
Joel McHale drag race, wow.
Yes, I loved being a judge.
I think Michelle wanted to rip my head off.
Michelle and I are friends, okay.
We had a very fun time.
That show's amazing.
And the amount of work the performers put in is staggering.
And like the changes they have to make it is remarkable.
Joel McHale [grunting] Joel McHale dog.
No three, three dogs.
I got a French bulldog, a pug, and a thing called a coton de tulear.
The French bulldog is a maniac and an alpha male apex predator.
And then our pug, I got him on The Great Indoors, which was a short lived show.
There was a scene that required this guest star to be holding a baby pug.
The person in charge let me adopt that dog.
And that dog is here now.
And he's the sweetest boy.
And in the show, the dog's name was Jonathan.
And the dog, the puppy's name was Cowboy.
So I brought him home and at that point my kids were like 11 and eight.
And I was like, well, the dog's name is Cowboy.
And the name of the dog on TV was Jonathan.
And, but I was like, you can name the dog whatever you want.
And they looked at me like I was crazy.
They were like, The dog's name is Cowboy Jonathan.
And I went, Okay, it is.
Joel McHale knife collection.
Correction, knife comma sword and weapon collection.
Yeah I don't know what's wrong with me.
It's just I've always collected knives and like nunchucks and billy clubs and throwing knives.
I don't know why.
And it's weird, people like, It's weird! I'm like, Yeah, I just was always obsessed with them.
And it's hard for me not to go into a knife store if I'm walking by one.
On Instagram I follow a bunch of knife companies, you know, to keep up.
And my wife is like, Can you just put all those away? And I was like, Yeah.
And then I never do.
Last one on this page.
Zodiac sign! Scorpio which means we have tails that are poisonous.
Is Joel McHale.
Is Joel McHale oh, here we go, nice.
[beep] yeah.
What are you looking at? Is Joel McHale related to Ryan Seacrest? His pile of money goes all the way to the clouds.
So he's a very nice successful man.
We are not related.
We worked at E! forever or as I like to call it the Eh network.
So I would see them in the hallways and I would just, he would just, he was always so busy counting his money that so I didn't, you know, I don't want to interrupt that.
Very nice guy.
And now he has a beard.
Copied me.
Is Joel McHale Left-handed.
Oh, why would you ask? It's weird, I am left-handed for writing and like brushing my teeth and fine motor skills.
And I am right-handed for gross motor skills.
So throwing balls and golfing and batting.
I could become a professional athlete if all my talent was in one arm.
But alas it's not.
We all have crosses to bear and I would bear mine on my right shoulder.
Is Joel McHale a lawyer? No, not even close.
I'm super dyslexic and cheated my way through high school and college and everything.
I played one and it made, I said words out loud that sounded like I was one kind of, but no, I would be a terrible lawyer.
Where Joel McHale.
Okay, where is Joel McHale from? Seattle is my hometown.
So that's, that's where I'm from.
And as everybody know, I started a little coffee company called Starbucks, a little computer company called Microsoft, and some, I helped start an online shopping thing called Amazone.
I can't remember the name of it.
Anyway.
Where did Joel McHale go to college? Oh, thank you.
I went to the University of Washington.
Go Huskies.
Where has Joel McHale been? Where have I been, where have you been!? I feel like I'm constantly doing interviews like this so you don't have to ask that question.
Where have you been? I've been trying to get your attention this whole time! Where have I been? On card sharks on ABC Sunday nights at 10 o'clock, nine central.
Last one, oof, pressure, here we go.
Where did Joel McHale meet his wife? Oh, that's a good question.
Well, I met her twice.
First time I was a freshman and she was a senior.
Ooh, older woman.
She's only one year older because I entered college as an older person.
And she was very young for college and I met her and I was like, That's a very pretty woman.
And then I did not see her again for like three years.
And then I was shooting a movie, a crazy movie in Seattle, and her mom was an extra and her brother was a production assistant and he reintroduced us and she was like, Yeah, I know who he is.
I don't need to see him again.
And that's when she fell in love with me.
No, I called my friend Kim and I was like, Hey, do you think you could put a good word in for me with Sarah Williams? And she was like, Haha, good luck.
But Sarah took pity on me and allowed me to take her out.
And, and then I, I wore her down and she then eventually agreed to marry me.
Thank God that was almost 24 years ago.
And she's regretted it ever since.
Well, that was very fun.
Thanks for having me.
And this is the part of the show where people would say, Thank you, Wired. and then they'd throw the board, but I'm not gonna do that.
I'm gonna throw those little things.
I'll see you later.
I'm off camera, right? Ah shit.
Starring: Joel McHale Melissa McCarthy & Kristen Bell Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions NASA Astronauts Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions Common Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Ice Cube Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Eve Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Seth Rogen & Rose Byrne Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions The Cast of Warcraft Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Slow Mo Guys, MatPat, AsapSCIENCE, and Burnie Burns Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dana Carvey Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Mr. Robot's Carly Chaikin Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Cara Delevingne Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Chelsea Handler Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Blindspot's Jaimie Alexander Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Aniston & Jason Bateman Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kate McKinnon & Vanessa Bayer Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Cast of "Rogue One" Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tracy Morgan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions The Cast of 'Sesame Street' Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Samuel L. Jackson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Lawrence & Chris Pratt Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Reggie Watts Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ryan Reynolds & Jake Gyllenhaal Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Evans Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Morgan Freeman, Michael Caine, and Alan Arkin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Anne Hathaway & Jason Sudeikis Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Salma Hayek & Eugenio Derbez Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Amy Schumer & Goldie Hawn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Steve Carell & Kristen Wiig Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Ferrell & Amy Poehler Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Al Gore Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions on Climate Change Matthew McConaughey & Idris Elba Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dave Franco, Kumail Nanjiani and Fred Armisen Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Cruise & Doug Liman Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Josh Brolin & Taylor Kitsch Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Matt Damon & Julianne Moore Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nick Jonas Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gaten Matarazzo and Joe Keery Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Last Jedi Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Cena Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Owen Wilson & Ed Helms Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Smith & Joel Edgerton Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Black Panther Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Google Search Team Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bruce Willis Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlize Theron & David Oyelowo Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions This Is Us Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Alicia Vikander Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Garner Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlie Day Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jeff Goldblum Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Taraji P. Henson & Tyler Perry Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Krasinski Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ansel Elgort & Suki Waterhouse Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Terry Crews Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Shawn Mendes Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Solo Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jodie Foster Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Best of Autocomplete: The Cast of Black Panther, Stranger Things and More Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Robert Pattinson & Mia Wasikowska Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Alison Brie & Marc Maron Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Sorry to Bother You' Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Ant-Man and the Wasp' Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Arnett Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mila Kunis & Justin Theroux Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ewan McGregor & Hayley Atwell Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Liza Koshy Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Dog Days' Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ken Jeong Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mark Wahlberg, Ronda Rousey and Lauren Cohan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Cho Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Rami Malek & Charlie Hunnam Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Anna Kendrick & Blake Lively Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Paul McCartney Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Keegan-Michael Key & Olivia Munn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Elizabeth Olsen Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Hart & Tiffany Haddish Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rhett & Link Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Riverdale Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bella Thorne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Mulaney & Nick Kroll Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Aubrey Plaza & Craig Robinson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Try Guys Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Keira Knightley & Mackenzie Foy Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Julia Roberts & Dermot Mulroney Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Emily Ratajkowski & Aaron Paul Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Sarah Silverman & John C. Reilly Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Margot Robbie & Saoirse Ronan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Natalie Portman & Jude Law Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Lin-Manuel Miranda Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Best WIRED Autocomplete Moments of 2018 Feat. Liza Koshy, David Dobrik, The Try Guys & More Ninja Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zedd Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bryce Dallas Howard Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions James McAvoy & Sarah Paulson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jane Fonda & Lily Tomlin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Daniel Radcliffe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Priyanka Chopra, Rebel Wilson & Adam Devine Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions David Dobrik Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Brie Larson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Freddie Highmore Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Oscar Isaac & Pedro Pascal Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Markiplier Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Colin Farrell & Danny DeVito Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Queer Eye Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nikolaj Coster-Waldau Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gina Rodriguez Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sean Bean Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Anthony Mackie Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lily Collins & Nicholas Hoult Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Wu-Tang Clan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Wanda Sykes Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charles Melton Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jessica Alba & Gabrielle Union Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jon Hamm & David Tennant Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Thomas Middleditch & O'Shea Jackson Jr. Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Sophie Turner & Jessica Chastain Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mindy Kaling & Emma Thompson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Smosh Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Holland, Zendaya & Jacob Batalon Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Millie Bobby Brown, Finn Wolfhard & Noah Schnapp Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Winona Ryder & David Harbour Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Andre Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Machine Gun Kelly Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlie Puth Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Novak Djokovic Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Anderson Cooper Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jim Gaffigan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Liam Payne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lilly Singh Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gwen Stefani Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dove Cameron Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Smith Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Niall Horan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lele Pons Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Hailee Steinfeld Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Louis Tomlinson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kiernan Shipka & Isabela Merced Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kristen Stewart, Naomi Scott, and Ella Balinska Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jack Black & Awkwafina Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions KJ Apa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions The Best of Autocomplete 2019: Funniest Moments from Stranger Things, Spider-Man and More Billy Eichner & Cobie Smulders Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Frozen 2 Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jada Pinkett Smith Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zach Galifianakis & Zoe Saldana Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Elijah Wood Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Noah Centineo & Lana Condor Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Lucy Hale Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Patrick Stewart Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Norman Reedus Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Astronaut Chris Hadfield Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nick Offerman Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Binging with Babish Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jamie Dornan & Shailene Woodley Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ellie Kemper Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Joe Biden Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ricky Gervais Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Alicia Keys Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tony Hawk Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Russell Crowe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Bacon Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Joey King & Joel Courtney Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kermit & Miss Piggy Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Alessia Cara Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jamie Foxx & Joseph Gordon-Levitt Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mayim Bialik Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Desus & Mero Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dolly Parton Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ruby Rose Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sonequa Martin-Green Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chelsea Handler Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John C. Reilly & Tim Heidecker Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Joel McHale Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Questlove Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dua Lipa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zara Larsson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bob Odenkirk and RZA Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions SpongeBob's Tom Kenny & Bill Fagerbakke Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jackson Wang Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Andre Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions...Again LILHUDDY Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Polo G Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Hank Azaria Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zack Snyder Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions TWICE Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions MONSTA X Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Siri, Alexa and Google Home Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rich Brian and NIKI Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions B.I Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Never Have I Ever Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions M. Night Shyamalan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Henry Golding Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions BTS Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Emily Blunt & Dwayne Johnson Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Hudson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Outer Banks Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rita Ora Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dove Cameron Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions...Again Daniel Radcliffe Answers MORE of the Web's Most Searched Questions Ben Platt & Amandla Stenberg Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Hardy & Andy Serkis Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions On My Block Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Daniel Craig & Lashana Lynch Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions William Shatner Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Madison Beer Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Marshmello Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Amanda Seyfried & Finn Wittrock Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nina Dobrev Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kit Harington Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kristen Bell & Kirby Howell-Baptiste Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dominic Monaghan & Billy Boyd Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Cowboy Bebop Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions YouTube Search Team Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jack Whitehall Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Andrew Garfield Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sabrina Carpenter Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Simu Liu Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Holland, Zendaya & Jacob Batalon Answer MORE of the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Nam Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ben Affleck & Lily Rabe Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions ATEEZ Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Seth Rogen Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Owen Wilson Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions David Byrne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Johnny Knoxville Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Channing Tatum & Sandra Bullock Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Karen Gillan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Leslie Mann & Judd Apatow Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Cole Sprouse Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nicolas Cage Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions TommyInnit Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Drew Gooden Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Seth MacFarlane Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sadie Sink, Noah Schnapp & Gaten Matarazzo Answer the Web’s Most Searched Questions Taika Waititi Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Maisie Williams Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Jacksepticeye Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Hemsworth Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Guinness World Records Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Russo Brothers Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Keke Palmer Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Marques Brownlee Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Neil Patrick Harris Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Lopez & Leah Remini Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dakota Johnson & Jeff Bridges Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions High School Musical: The Musical: The Series Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Hart & Mark Wahlberg Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Danny DeVito Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lili Reinhart Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Boyega Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sofía Vergara & Simon Cowell Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Steve-O Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Stray Kids Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Charli & Dixie D'Amelio Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions NCT 127 Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Hasan Minhaj Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Cobra Kai's Ralph Macchio Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mrwhosetheboss Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chloë Grace Moretz Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Millie Bobby Brown Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jenna Ortega Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Veritasium's Derek Muller Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jason Momoa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions LaurDIY Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nigel Ng & Uncle Roger Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Finn Wolfhard & Guillermo del Toro Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ludwig Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Krasinski & Michael Kelly Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions ITZY Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Danny Gonzalez Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ashton Kutcher Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Paul Rudd & Jonathan Majors Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Outer Banks Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Again Kelly Slater Answers Surfing Questions From Twitter KAROL G Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Penn Badgley Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Pine, Hugh Grant & Michelle Rodriguez Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Willem Dafoe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions KSI Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bob Odenkirk Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jisoo Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ali Wong & Steven Yeun Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Evans & Ana de Armas Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Airrack Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions ChatGPT Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions James & Sean Gunn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mark Hamill Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Shameik Moore, Issa Rae & Hailee Steinfeld Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Segura Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Robert Downey Jr. & Christopher Nolan Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Bear Grylls Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Smosh Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Ice Cube Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Stephen Curry Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions 'Heart of Stone' Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions 'Critical Role' Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Harry Mack Freestyles The Web's Most Searched Questions Olivia Rodrigo Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Pokimane Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions MoistCr1TiKaL Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Dream Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Fanum Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Casey Neistat Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions | WIRED Måneskin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
