Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Tom Simonite Business Ex-Google Executive Opens a School for AI, With China's Help Kai-Fu Lee, founder of Sinovation Ventures, says tension between the US and China around artificial intelligence "is not a weapons race, AI is more an enabler.” Giulia Marchi/Bloomberg/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Regulation Sector IT Research Technology Machine learning When China’s government said last summer it intends to surpass the US and lead the world in artificial intelligence by 2030, skeptics pointed to a major problem. Despite gobs of data from the world’s largest online population, lightweight privacy rules, and 8 million fresh college graduates in 2017, the country doesn’t have enough people skilled in AI to overtake America.
This week Kai-Fu Lee, onetime head of Google’s operations in China, launched a new project to help close the country’s AI talent gap. His helpers include the Chinese government and some of North America’s leading computer scientists. The project is an example of how US and Chinese efforts to progress in AI are entangled, despite recent rhetoric about superpower technology rivalry.
Lee was born in Taiwan, studied in the US, and began his career in AI research before stints as an executive at Silicon Graphics, Apple, and Microsoft. He led Google’s expansion in China until 2009, when he left to found an AI-centric investment firm now called Sinovation Ventures. The firm invests in both China and the US, and has its own AI research institute.
At Peking University in Beijing Tuesday, Lee addressed 100 professors from Chinese science and engineering schools. Over the next four months the group will learn how to teach machine learning and other AI techniques, in a new annual program supported by Sinovation’s AI Institute, the University of Peking, and China’s Ministry of Education. Some of the newly trained professors will help with a second phase of the program this summer, in which 300 top students will get special training in AI from Lee and other experts.
Cornell professor John Hopcroft, second from left, lectured at the opening day of a new AI training program backed by China's government at Peking University.
Sinovation Ventures Artificial Intelligence Institute Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Despite the program’s connection to China’s government, some of the experts helping Lee work for American institutions. Cornell Professor John Hopcroft joined Lee to teach on opening day this week. He received the Turing Award, considered the Nobel of computing in 1986 , and now does research on machine learning. Google’s leading AI researcher Geoff Hinton is slated to give a class via videolink this summer.
In his four-hour lecture Tuesday, Hopcroft summarized for the assembled professors the contents of a machine learning course at a top US university. He’s made frequent trips to China over the past decade trying to help the country improve the quality of its university education, which he describes as a humanitarian project. “The opportunity in China is to make the world better for millions of people,” he says.
Lee says his program will quickly expand the nation’s supply of programmers with AI experience. “If these professors each teach a class of 400 students in fall and spring, that would graduate thousands of students for employment in 2019,” he says.
That could help Chinese companies competing to hire AI engineers—including startups in Lee’s investment portfolio. It also aligns with a key strand of China’s Next Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan announced last July.
The plan envisions China’s economy, military, and society invigorated and empowered by artificial intelligence. The government is seeking to build on a recent surge in AI investments from China’s internet companies and others, which has created several startups worth over $1 billion in areas including facial recognition and new types of computer chips.
 Government support for AI in China includes new funding, government contracts, and access to some state data troves. Growing China’s AI talent base has also become a major theme, with the government supporting new programs from colleges and companies.
Given that background, and recent friction between the US and China over technology and trade , Sinovation’s project might add fuel to concerns in Washington about an “ AI arms race ” between the countries. The US Trade Representative’s report justifying this week’s sanctions on $50 billion of Chinese imports said that one part of China’s AI plan is to use venture investments and other engagements with the US to draw technology back home.
One hundred college professors from around China joined the program to improve how they teach AI skills to their students.
Sinovation Ventures Artificial Intelligence Institute Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Lee calls that framing “narrow minded.” He says companies and academics in both China and the US openly publish AI research papers and software. Google opened an AI research lab in China in December, saying it wants to collaborate more with the Chinese AI community. “This is not a weapons race, AI is more an enabler,” says Lee.
That argument is somewhat shared by some in Washington. Bob Work, previously deputy secretary of defense in both the Obama and Trump administrations, chairs a new task force on AI at think tank the Center for a New American Security. At the launch event last month, he pushed back on use of the term “arms race” and said America’s greatest priority should be backing commercial development of AI.
Elsa Kania, a researcher on the CNAS task force, says that could include taking pointers from Sinovation’s government-sponsored program in Beijing. “I would argue the United States should be doing the same,” she says.
In 2016, the Obama White House produced a pair of reports on the potential of artificial intelligence that recommended investment in AI education and research. Nvidia, Intel, and several academics made similar pleas at congressional hearings on AI in February and March. So far, the Trump administration has shown little interest in the technology.
Despite protests from some American officials, it's too late to stop China from becoming a power in artificial intelligence.
The victory by an artificial-intelligence program from Chinese tech giant Tencent over a Go champion shows the country's gains in AI.
As part of a national strategy, China is challenging Nvidia's dominance in chips used for artificial intelligence.
Senior Editor X Topics China artificial intelligence Will Knight Khari Johnson Kari McMahon Amit Katwala Andy Greenberg Andy Greenberg David Gilbert Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
