Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Simon Hill Gear The Best Family Board Games Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED A Simple Starter $30 at Amazon Cute, Dangerous Cats $20 at Amazon Trade and Build $48 at Amazon Cooperative Cards $15 at Amazon It’s good to take a break from screens every now and then. The great outdoors has plenty to offer, but there are times when you’re stuck inside for one reason or another. Board games are a fun way to gather everyone around the table to engage in some group escapism.
My family has had a board game night most weeks for a couple of years now, and we’ve discovered some great games. These are our favorites, selected with the help of my two kids, ages 10 and 13. We didn’t include board game classics you probably know all about (or own), like Clue, Monopoly, Connect 4, Scrabble, Operation, Chutes and Ladders, Battleship, Jenga, Guess Who, Pictionary, and Risk. For more ideas, check out our list of the Best Board Games to Play Over Zoom.
Updated May 2023: We added Catan and League of the Lexicon, and updated prices throughout.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.
com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Ravensburger A Simple Starter Labyrinth One of the first board games we played together as a family, Labyrinth is simple enough for anyone to grasp. The board is a maze, and you must collect a set of treasures based on the cards you’re dealt. The fun part of this game designed by a German psychologist, is how you can change the maze by pushing one tile onto the board and another off every turn. Carve out a route for yourself, but also consider how to block your opponents.
$30 at Amazon $34 at Walmart Photograph: Exploding Kittens Cute, Dangerous Cats Exploding Kittens This deceptively simple card game is easy to pick up but has layers of strategy as you try to avoid exploding kitten cards. It combines fun elements from classic card games, like Old Maid, and adds a modern twist. There’s just enough complexity to make things fun, but never so much that it gets confusing. The card art features some cute, and not so cute, cats with all sorts of special powers to turn the tables on your opponents. When it starts to get old, the expansions do a great job of breathing new life into the game.
$20 at Amazon $20 at Target $20 at Walmart Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Amazon Trade and Build Catan Formerly known as Settlers of Catan, this addictive strategy game challenges you to gather and trade resources to build and settle a randomly generated board of hexagonal tiles. Dominating the map and gaining enough points for a victory requires the right strategy and a bit of luck with dice rolls. My eldest (13) loves this game, especially the trading portion and the robber mechanic, which allows you to steal cards from your opponents and block their resources (though it can cause arguments). It works well with three or four players and is easy to grasp, and you can finish a game in an hour. There’s plenty of replay value and a wide range of expansions. For younger players, a junior version of Catan is suitable for kids starting in kindergarten.
$48 at Amazon $48 at Target Photograph: Thames and Kosmos Cooperative Cards The Crew: Mission Deep Sea This clever card game is a cooperative trick-taking challenge for three to five players with tons of replay value. Each game of The Crew features an underwater mission with a brief background story, and they gradually grow in difficulty and complexity. For mission success, you have to complete a set of tasks, which requires some cooperation, but you aren’t allowed to discuss the cards in your hand. It’s easy to learn, quick to play, and highly addictive.
$15 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Z Man Games For Working Together Pandemic It feels a little strange playing Pandemic after recent events, but the beauty of this game is that it’s cooperative. Each player has a role, and you work together to eradicate four deadly diseases before humanity’s fate is sealed. It’s often exciting, encouraging communication and group strategy. The key to success is taking advantage of each player’s unique abilities, and you can complete a game in less than an hour. There are also some deep expansions if your family likes it.
$36 at Amazon $36 at Target $30 at Walmart Photograph: Pegasus Spiele For Detectives MicroMacro: Crime City Refreshing and unlike anything we’ve played before, MicroMacro: Crime City is a cooperative game about solving crimes for up to four players, but it also works as a solo game. Plenty of space is needed to unfurl the city map and move freely around it with the magnifying glass hunting for suspects and clues. There’s a Where’s Waldo element to the hunt, but it’s combined with loose narratives that take you through each crime scene, unraveling the mystery step-by-step as you work together to track down the culprit. Discussing theories is a big part of the fun here, and cases take anywhere from 10 minutes to an hour to solve. While younger kids will enjoy it, the game is recommended for ages 12 and up because some cases deal with adult topics. There isn’t much replay value here, but the sequel MicroMacro: Crime City - Full House ($28) offers fresh cases on a new map.
$29 at Amazon $37 $25 at Walmart Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: The City of Games For Cat Lovers The Isle of Cats Beautifully designed and completely unique, Isle of Cats is an instant hit with cat lovers like my daughter. You must rescue cats and fit them onto your boat, Tetris style, to escape from the island before the baddie turns up. You need fish to tempt them aboard, and there are lots of cards to add layers of strategy. It can seem overwhelmingly complex in the beginning, but after a few rounds it all makes sense. We preferred the full game to the simplified rules, though scoring is quite complicated, and you’ll want to set aside a few hours.
$36 at Amazon Photograph: Pegasus Spiele Push Your Luck Port Royal As merchants trying to build an influence in the Caribbean you must first amass a fortune, recruit a crew, complete expeditions, and capture ships. The base game features a 120-card deck with lovely artwork, and is easy to pick up. The big hook here is the gamble as you decide when to stop drawing cards. Push your luck too far, and you lose out on that round. The mix of cards allows for many strategies, but young kids (maybe 7 or 8 years and up) can grasp the gameplay and compete. It’s for two to five players (we found it perfect for four), and games come in under an hour. There are several expansion packs if you enjoy the base game.
$27 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Blue Orange For Budding Strategists Kingdomino Build a 5 x 5 tile kingdom around your castle using randomly drawn tiles that connect just like dominoes in this light and speedy game. Each piece of matching terrain scores you a point, multiplied by the crowns on the tiles you chose. It is simple enough for younger kids to grasp but still offers some room to try different strategies. You can play with up to four players, but we like it best with two.
$20 at Amazon $20 at Walmart Photograph: Exploding Kittens Caveman Chuckles Poetry for Neanderthals This daft party game from the makers of Exploding Kittens is fun for groups of all ages. Every card has a word on it, and your seemingly simple challenge is to get your team to correctly guess that word within the time limit by speaking in single syllables only. If you break the rules, the opposition can hit you with the inflatable “No” stick. It’s loud and silly and usually makes everyone laugh.
$20 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Days of Wonder For Something More Complex Ticket to Ride With lovely steam engine styling and rules even young kids can quickly understand, Ticket to Ride is a wonderful introduction to more complex board games. The aim of this German-style game by beloved publisher Days of Wonder is to claim different railway routes across the US and Canada using your colorful plastic rail cars. You spend cards to claim routes, and there are bonus points for connecting certain destinations. The European version adds ferries and tunnels, and there are lots of other expansions. The only downside is that my wife always wins. (There's also a version called First Journey that shortens and simplifies the gameplay for younger kids.) $48 at Amazon $48 at Target $47 at Walmart Photograph: Big Potato Games For Big Bluffers The Chameleon There’s a topic card with 16 words, and a dice roll determines the chosen word. One player gets the Chameleon card. Their mission is to avoid detection, but the catch is that they don’t know which word was chosen. Each player says a related word then everyone votes to try and expose the bluffer. It is a quick and easy party game for up to eight players and always has our kids chortling with glee. While you can play with three, it’s best with more players (six or seven is perfect). Some topics can be tricky for younger kids, but you can write your own topic card.
$20 at Target $17 at Amazon $17 at Walmart Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Spin Master Games Ask Your Questions Hedbanz My kids find this game hilarious, and we used to play it a lot when they were younger. It’s a simple idea: The other players choose a card and stick it into your headband facing out without letting you see it. You have a limited time to ask questions and figure who or what you are. We used to play an adult version of this in college by writing on cigarette papers and sticking them to each other’s heads, but this version is completely family-friendly.
$14 at Amazon $14 at Target $14 at Walmart Photograph: Megacoprin Games Murder Mystery Awkward Guests When you have played Clue to death and crave a more challenging murder mystery game, try Awkward Guests. The aim is to solve the murder of the thoroughly unpleasant Mr. Walton by figuring out who killed him, where they did it, what they used, and whether they had an accomplice. But there’s more depth to this deductive game, as you must collect and swap clues. The information exchange is a tactical balance between amassing knowledge and hiding juicy clues from your competitors. Recommended for kids aged 12 years and up, but some younger children will enjoy this too.
$42 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Ravensburger Monster Mash Horrified Can you save the town from classic movie monsters like Dracula, the Mummy, and the Bride of Frankenstein? This title pits up to five players against a revolving cast of monsters. Each villain behaves differently and can only be banished when you work together to defeat them. There's tons of replay value as you work out the best strategy to save the town, the villagers, and yourselves. Cooperative play like this can also help you avoid arguments on family board game night. If you enjoy Horrified, you should also try Horrified: American Monsters ($45) and Alien: Fate of the Nostromo ($30) , though both may prove a little too scary for younger kids.
$40 at Amazon $40 at Barnes & Noble Photograph: USAopoly Sketch and Laugh Telestrations Loosely based on the classic Telephone game, Telestrations challenges you to draw words or phrases and identify sketches as you pass erasable books around the table. By the time they get back to their owner, signaling the end of the round, the original words have often morphed into something wildly different. This party game gets everyone involved, and going through the sketchbooks to follow the journey is often hilarious. It’s recommended for between four and eight players aged 12 years and up, but it works best with at least six players, and our 9-year-old daughter loved it.
$18 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Next Move Games Soothing Patterns Azul Everyone loves the colorful, decorative tiles in this game, inspired by the Moorish designs in the Alhambra palace in Southern Spain. The goal is to decorate the royal palace for the King of Portugal. Each round, you pick tiles from the central discs and use them to fill your game board, paying attention to the points that different sets and patterns score. The description doesn’t do this justice—you must play it to see why it’s so appealing. Like many of the best games, it’s quick to learn but has real strategic depth.
$32 at Amazon $32 at Target Photograph: Alderac Entertainment Group Wonderful Wildlife Cascadia Kids love animals, and this wildlife adventure into the Pacific Northwest focuses on laying terrain tiles and populating habitats with appropriate wildlife tokens. Match habitat tiles to form contiguous areas, like wetlands or forest, and complete wildlife goals, like amassing runs of salmon or pairs of bears. Special nature tokens allow for more strategic depth. This is a gentle game for one to four players aged 10 years and up, but there’s nothing to stop younger kids from playing if they can grasp the rules.
$40 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Drumond Park For Good Laughs Articulate Trying to describe words to your team without saying them, using the first letter, or resorting to rhyming is the fun challenge at the heart of Articulate. There’s a kid’s version, and we use cards from that mixed with the original to get the right level of difficulty for adults and children. Fast and frenetic, this game often provokes the giggles, but can also cause frustration and the occasional huff. It works well with big groups because you can divide into teams and take turns to describe.
$25 at Amazon Photograph: Funko Games Movie Magic E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial: Light Years From Home Game This cooperative game for two to four people is one of the best movie tie-ins we have ever played. Game designer, Prospero Hall, shows real reverence for the source material. And E.T.
lends itself to coop gameplay, with players taking on the roles of Elliot, Gertie, Mike, or Greg to ferry E.T. around on their BMXs and keep him out of the clutches of the authorities until the mothership can rescue him. Solid mechanics, a balanced challenge, and a sprinkling of movie magic make for a fun hour of family gaming.
$12 at Amazon $30 at Target Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Gamewright Card Combos Sushi Go Party! Collect sets of super cute sushi cards to match the menu and score points in this accessible card game. You select a card on each turn to build a delectable meal and pass on the rest of your hand to the next player. The gameplay is compelling and easy to grasp but allows for many different strategies. You can tailor it for your group by switching the menu, which provides enormous replay value. It works with two to eight people, but four is perfect. The only negative is that it leaves you craving sushi.
$20 at Amazon $20 at Walmart Photograph: Roxley Games Best for Two People Santorini While you can play with three or four, this 3D game is best with two players. You move and build every turn, aiming to reach the third level with one of your builders to win. Santorini is basic but fun and quick to play; it's simple enough for young kids. When you’re ready to mix it up, introduce the Greek Gods cards to give players special powers. Start with the beginner set of 10 and eventually add the advanced cards, which takes the total number of Gods up to 30. The scalable nature makes this a great game to return to and tweak as your kids grow older.
$40 at Amazon $30 at Walmart Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Two Brothers Games For Logophiles League of the Lexicon Anyone interested in linguistics, slang, grammar, or etymology will get a kick out of this beautifully crafted trivia game. Players roll a wooden dice that decides the category and win an artifact if they answer correctly. Questions in League of Lexicon range from fiendishly difficult to deceptively simple, and full answers add some educational value. With contributions from a brain trust of linguists, authors, and lexicographers, the 2,000 multiple-choice questions offer real depth, with cards divided into ticklish and tricksy difficulties. We’ve been enjoying this as a family of four, with the kids sticking to the easier questions, but you could also play in teams. It’s recommended for children aged 10 and up, but vocabulary level is more important than age.
$40 at Amazon Photograph: Exploding Kittens For Chaotic Action Throw Throw Burrito This frenetic party game is a big hit with groups of kids, but it’s best played outdoors or in a room with plenty of space and no fragile ornaments. The card game portion is a race to find sets of three and pass along cards you don’t want, but some combinations trigger attacks that see everyone grasping for the squishy toy burritos in the center of the table and throwing them at each other.
$25 at Amazon $25 at Target $25 at Walmart Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Big Potato Games For Large Groups Herd Mentality A great party game for up to 20 players, the aim of Herd Mentality is to write down the same answer as everyone else. Subjective questions like, “What’s the best pizza topping?” or “Would you rather have robot arms or robot legs?” provoke debate and laughter. When you’re in the majority you collect a cow token. The first player to amass eight cows wins. It’s simple, quick to play, and great for larger family gatherings.
$25 at Amazon $19 at Target $39 at Walmart Photograph: Libellud For Ghost Hunters Mysterium This game is a little bit spooky and combines elements of Clue with deeper role-playing games. Set at a séance in 1920s Scotland, players are cast as mediums, with one person taking on the role of the ghost. The psychics work together to interpret vision cards from the ghost and work out who murdered them, where, and with which weapon before the break of dawn. It works best if an adult or older kid takes on the most challenging ghost role, and there’s quite a lot of setup, but this is engrossing once you get going.
$44 at Amazon $44 at Walmart Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Gear Wish List: 47 Awesome Gifts for All the Enthusiasts, Connoisseurs, and Fanatics in Your Circle WIRED Staff Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Ravensburger Dark Side Star Wars Villainous We played Disney Villainous a few times, but it failed to hook us, so I wasn’t expecting us to enjoy Star Wars Villainous as much as we did. This beautifully themed board game casts each player as a different villain from the Star Wars universe, from Darth Vader to Moff Gideon. Like other games in the Villainous series, every character has a unique set of victory conditions, and the other players get opportunities to meddle. It takes a few plays to get your head around and is best for four players aged 10 years and up.
$35 at Amazon $35 at Target Photograph: Pegasus Spiele Other Great Family Board Games Honorable Mentions There are so many family board games. Here are a few we also like.
Kitchen Rush for $51 : A truly unique title that proves too many cooks can spoil the broth; this game can get chaotic fast. You work together to cook dishes for customers within a strict time limit. It’s a little too complicated for young kids (I’d say 10-years and up is best). If you like this, try the videogame Overcooked.
Sounds Fishy for $20 : Another fun group game from Big Potato, the challenge in Sounds Fishy is to spot fake answers. Each card poses a question, but only one of the answers you get is correct. It’s for four to 10 players, and we found it more fun but tougher with more people.
Zillionaires Road Trip USA for $17 : Each of the 49 squares on the game board is a quirky roadside attraction, from Bubblegum Alley to the National Mustard Museum, and players bid to buy them with the aim of securing four in a row. My kids loved this, the adults not so much.
Cards Against Humanity: Family Edition for $29 : You can play this party game with up to 30 players, and it will produce a fair bit of juvenile giggling and chortling. Like the adult version, there isn’t much strategy here, but finding the perfect combination to crack everyone up is satisfying.
The Haunted Mansion – Call of the Spirits for $13 : Collect ghost cards as you explore the Gothic mansion via the rotating hallway and try to avoid picking up too many haunt cards. Disney park fans will get a nostalgic glow, and you can complete a game in just half an hour.
Contributor X Topics buying guides Board Games Shopping Matt Jancer Boone Ashworth WIRED Staff Eric Ravenscraft Brenda Stolyar Scott Gilbertson Nena Farrell Medea Giordano WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
