old id = 32
With the Clock Running Out, Humans Need to Rethink Time Itself | WIRED
2022
https://www.wired.com/story/time-politics-democracy-elections

Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Eleanor Cummins Ideas With the Clock Running Out, Humans Need to Rethink Time Itself Illustration by Ben Denzer. Source photographs by Austin Abitz (countertop), Eric Li (clock), and Dillon Reisman (rolling pin) Save this story Save Save this story Save Another day, another deadline: To limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, greenhouse gas emissions must peak “at the latest before 2025,” according to the most recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report.
 This is how we live now—not in the Biblical end times, but in a permanent “time of the end,” in the words of 20th-century German Jewish philosopher Günther Anders. Between the possibility of nuclear war and the forward march of climate change, for at least 70 years a distinctly secular apocalypse has always seemed just around the corner. Time itself is one of the victims.
Just take a look around: The mega-droughts, wildfires, and category-busting hurricanes we see today are the result of emissions past—a hauntological quirk of the carbon cycle.
 The acute stress of the Covid-19 pandemic slowed time for some, while for others things sped up —both natural responses, psychologists say, to the immense stress of lockdown. News of the war in Ukraine, which once might have arrived in a morning paper or nightly program, is transmitted through our screens 24/7. And TikTok trends move at the speed of a micro-video, pulling fast fashion and even fast furniture along with it. Everywhere, the past, present, and future appear to be collapsing into each other.
Speed has been the name of the game since the Industrial Revolution, according to the German political scientist Hartmut Rosa, author of Social Acceleration: A New Theory of Modernity.
 For centuries, Westerners have bought into the narrative that “we can overcome material scarcity through economic growth, scarcity of time through faster technologies, and a better, free life through changes in science and politics,” he said in 2015.
 People are pushed to pack in more labor, more consumption, more everything. Yet the more we cram, the less those experiences register in our minds and memories, leading to a profound sense of alienation.
Now, time is not only accelerating; for many, the future also feels foreclosed. In a 2021 survey of more than 10,000 young people in 10 countries, more than half agreed that “humanity is doomed” and many described the sense that they have no future. Individualized “eco-anxiety” and “climate grief,” while real and potent, are not the only consequences of this change in tempo. It’s modern liberal democracy that is struggling to keep a hold on its authority and imagine a future for everyone. What citizens do with their changed relationship to time is sure to have profound effects for governments around the globe.
Conceptions of time have changed dramatically across human history, from cyclical to linear, religious to secular. But “scientific” time, based on a traditional Newtonian conception of time’s arrow moving forward at a regimented speed, is the timepiece of modernity, of capitalism, and of liberal democracy. While more recent physics research has challenged this premise, “clock time” is still used to structure our electoral cycles, prison sentences, immigration policies, and more, says political philosopher Elizabeth Cohen, author of The Political Value of Time.
 In this context, time is not an inert substance, but the very soil from which democracy springs.
Many wealthy countries, however, are increasingly post-clock. Instead, people’s day-to-day lives operate on “network time,” says Robert Hassan, a professor of media and communication at the University of Melbourne and author of Empires of Speed.
 Since the 1960s, networked computing, which makes everything from social media to Zoom calls possible, has allowed for a kind of connectivity that collapses both space and time. The result is that democratic politics seems interminably slow relative to the pace of commerce and culture, and people’s dual identities as citizens and consumers feel more and more at odds.
The itch to press fast-forward on politics may be one reason 40 percent of Americans—54 percent of the Republicans surveyed and 31 percent of Democrats—say they would support a military coup in a hypothetical scenario where “there is a lot of corruption” in government. Other models of governance, from illiberal democracy to fascism, can act much more decisively, which holds obvious appeal in our deadlined moment. “Only an enlightened despot could push through the measures needed to navigate the 21st century safely,” British astronomer Martin Rees has written.
 Younger people feel it, too: One of environmental science professor Sarah Jaquette Ray’s students “emailed me to say she was so distressed that she’d be willing to submit to a green dictator if they would address climate change,” Ray wrote in Scientific American last year.
But good decision-making—the kind democracy intends to elicit—takes time. A lot of it. Bills must be read, ideally in full, and debated. Citizens deserve time between elections to reflect on the future they want. Politicians should be afforded patience as they try to enact their campaign promises. And history shows us despots are rarely enlightened. While authoritarian environmentalism “may excel at producing policies, [it appears to] be no better than democratic environmentalism at producing good outcomes,” according to The Economist.
 In China, for example, the Communist Party’s “policy output has been prolific,” yet its actions are inconsistent with its stated goals. As of 2021, the country is constructing coal plants in 60 new locations to avoid power shortages; if used as intended, the plants will remain active into the 2050s.
Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Business Sam Bankman-Fried Built a Crypto Paradise in the Bahamas—Now He's a Bad Memory Joel Khalili Science Everyone Was Wrong About Why Cats Purr Jorge Garay Security They Cracked the Code to a Locked USB Drive Worth $235 Million in Bitcoin. Then It Got Weird Andy Greenberg Just as importantly, democracies require a shared belief in a contestable future—a vision inherently at odds with apocalypticism. Today, supposedly evidenced-based environmental doomism is regularly on display, including in the “now or never” language used in the recent IPCC report. With an eye toward Armageddon, this kind of climate doomism can feel eerily akin to religious fundamentalism, says Phil Torres , a philosopher who studies eschatology in all its forms. While people often frame hope as a psychological necessity in the face of ecological collapse, it is also an essential ingredient in democratic governance, which too easily buckles under the weight of determinism.
The problem and the solution, then, both lie in reconceptualizing our sense of time—and the way we plan around it. Instead of merely accelerating politics to match the speed of culture, democratic citizens need to devise mechanisms to slow other sectors down and weigh political time more accurately. For too long, democracy “has enabled us to colonize the future,” the public philosopher Roman Krznaric has written.
 While it is almost impossible to predict what comes next, it is the responsibility of every generation to imagine what their successors might need. In an era of escalating climate chaos, that obligation has never been more pressing.
While politics at the speed of TikTok must be discouraged, democratic reform can help us better account for deep time. For example, the voting age in the US should be lowered—to at least age 12— to give those who will be living with the fullest effects of climate change and other policy decisions a voice. Democracies should also employ age-weighted voting , which gives certain demographics more votes than others as a means of elevating their perspective. For example, everyone under 21 might get three votes, while those between 22 and 59 would get two votes, and those over 60 would only get one vote. Together, these interventions would help overcome our default devaluation of the future and put more power in the hands of those who will live through it.
Even as democracy is protected, some of its more arbitrary electoral timetables can be redesigned for a modern world. To reflect longer lifespans, for example, appointments of the US Supreme Court Justices should be limited from lifetime appointments to a nonrenewable term between 12 and 18 years.
 This way, the court could remain comfortably outside of the churn of politics, but not so far outside that it fails to represent the times in which we live. Similar limits on congressional tenure could be adopted as part of a larger effort to bring the average age of representatives down from the current average, which hovers around 60 years old.
Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Business Sam Bankman-Fried Built a Crypto Paradise in the Bahamas—Now He's a Bad Memory Joel Khalili Science Everyone Was Wrong About Why Cats Purr Jorge Garay Security They Cracked the Code to a Locked USB Drive Worth $235 Million in Bitcoin. Then It Got Weird Andy Greenberg To reduce the pressure of reelection and encourage executives to focus on governance, the presidential term cycle should also be reformed. Political theorist Rick LaRue has advocated for expanding first terms from four years to six and shrinking subsequent terms from four years to three. Among other possible benefits, this strategy could condense the amount of time a president is a “lame duck” from half of their presidency to one-third and pull second terms out of the muck of midterm elections. While no one can guarantee that the public or their representatives act thoughtfully, we must always preserve the possibility and, where possible, design systems that incentivize reflection.
There’s no reason our political reforms must stop with the human species, either. Bangladesh, Ecuador, and the White Earth Band of Ojibwe in Minnesota have all enshrined the rights of non-human entities , like rivers, trees, and other natural entities, which can outlive humans by hundreds, thousands, or even millions of years—time horizons our species naturally struggles to comprehend. While these ecosystems may not be able to vote for themselves, legal representation, likely in the form of a conservatorship or trust, can advocate on their behalf.
Though many of the most urgent reforms target the federal government, communities of all sizes can and should build longer-term thinking into every decision. Appointed representatives, like the Future Generations Commissioner of Wales , may help. But grassroots movements like Future Design in Japan, which brings locals together to imagine how today’s policies will play out decades down the line before those decisions are made, have already shown great potential for building community. The goal is not to embrace age discrimination. After all, there are octogenarians who have been fighting for the planet and other just causes their entire lives. Rather, it’s to adequately enfranchise those who will live in the future we are creating together.
Time’s unraveling can feel overwhelming. More than anything, though, it feels as if Europeans and their settler-colonial descendants are waking up from dream time, and only seconds from midnight. For decades, endless growth seemed achievable to many, and monied interests muffled the sounds of the ticking clock. Now that the peril—to the climate, to democracy, to the future itself—is clear, so is the potential for change. It’s not “now or never,” but now and forever.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! The race to rebuild the world's coral reefs Is there an optimal driving speed that saves gas? As Russia plots its next move, an AI listens How to learn sign language online NFTs are a privacy and security nightmare 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database 🏃🏽‍♀️ Want the best tools to get healthy? Check out our Gear team’s picks for the best fitness trackers , running gear (including shoes and socks ), and best headphones Ideas Contributor X Topics climate climate change National Affairs Policy democracy time politics magazine-30.07-30.08 Meghan O'Gieblyn Nika Simovich Fisher Allie Funk Joseph Jerome Suzannah Showler Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón
