old id = 947
AI minds the gap and fills in missing Greek inscriptions
2022
https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-022-00641-2

Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript.
Advertisement View all journals Search Log in Explore content About the journal Publish with us Subscribe Sign up for alerts RSS feed nature news & views article Download PDF NEWS AND VIEWS 09 March 2022 AI minds the gap and fills in missing Greek inscriptions Charlotte Roueché 0 Charlotte Roueché Charlotte Roueché is in the Department of Classics, King’s College London, London WC2R 2LS, UK.
View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Twitter Facebook Email You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF The possibility that artificial intelligence (AI) will automate tasks and thus destroy certain jobs is advancing steadily into more and more areas of life; the waves are now lapping even on the quiet shores of ancient-world studies. In a paper in Nature , Assael et al.
1 present an AI tool called Ithaca, which has been developed to bring deep learning to the world of classical studies and the interpretation of transcribed ancient Greek texts, which were originally inscribed on stone. But this advance should not be interpreted as a threat to centuries of tradition — rather as a complement to them.
The study of the past is always based on insufficient evidence, and the more distant the past, the more fragmentary the evidence. Historians regularly use hypothesis to bridge the gaps, and regularly modify their hypotheses. In the case of the study of inscribed texts (epigraphy), this is literally true. Epigraphers have to develop skills, based on painstaking study and wide experience, to fill the gaps in texts that survive only in fragments, and to assess the material’s date and provenance. Until now, this work has usually relied on the deep experience of a community of scholars, who gradually learn to identify the linguistic conventions of particular societies and their customary procedures (such as ratifying a decree). Ithaca offers a computer-based way to approach these tasks (Fig. 1), and uses deep learning to replicate and improve the results. Such a method can provoke real fears that human understanding might become superfluous — fears not so different from the concerns felt in other fields of expertise.
Figure 1 | Predicting missing text in an ancient Greek inscription.
a , Scholars previously transcribed this fragmented inscription, noting gaps where letters are missing (highlighted dashes).
b , Assael et al.
1 report the development of an artificial-intelligence tool called Ithaca, which is trained to suggest text that might fill these sorts of gaps. The text proposed by Ithaca matches the suggestions previously made by scholars (text highlighted in blue), with a few exceptions (text highlighted in red). The high level of accuracy achieved by Ithaca indicates how it can enhance and enrich the work of scholars. (Figure based on Extended Data Fig. 4 of ref. 1.) In the area of humanities, scholars of the classical world have been surprisingly advanced in their adoption of digital tools with which to present and exploit their materials. Several early resources, such as the rich collection of literary texts in the Perseus Digital Library of ancient Greek and Latin texts (see go.nature.com/3t5yvub ), were conceived in the 1980s, made available in compact-disc format in the 1990s, and then transferred to the Internet during the 2000s. The early birth of such projects meant that many were designed and understood principally as tools for searching. Since then, the Internet has been used to present data that would otherwise be prohibitively expensive to publish — such as the ground-breaking online publication of the Vindolanda Tablets (see go.nature.com/3jz5c1d ), a set of correspondence between Roman soldiers and their families who were based around Hadrian’s Wall in Britain in the late first and early second centuries ad.
Read the paper: Restoring and attributing ancient texts using deep neural networks This early adoption of digital formats inspired and facilitated the development of Ithaca by providing an easily accessible training set for this AI tool. The principal resource used by Assael and colleagues is the Searchable Greek Inscriptions data set of the Packard Humanities Institute in Santa Clarita, California. This is not a random collection of material, but a presentation of 178,551 transcribed texts to which scholarly judgement has already been applied, and both legible words and letters and illegible spaces have been carefully reported. Another enabling tool was the Lexicon of Greek Personal Names at the University of Oxford, UK, a project conceived well before the Internet was born, based on decades of careful scholarship assigning locations and dates to each example of a name used in the ancient Greek world. Ithaca has harnessed this expertise and extends it, mimicking the neural processes of the scholar.
Use of these resources allowed Ithaca to learn the prevailing patterns among personal names and in the language of inscribed texts from particular places and periods. The authors then applied this tool to assess a group of fragmentary texts, and to produce suggestions for the restoration of missing text, as well as for provenance and date. When these outputs were compared against the corresponding judgements of expert scholars, the authors found that Ithaca provided a notably higher level of accuracy and a richer result.
The Vindolanda correspondence was written on perishable strips of wood, and survived by chance. In areas of the Graeco-Roman world where good stone was easily available, public and private documents were often inscribed on this more-substantial material. Some survive in reasonably complete form, but the passage of time has rendered many more into fragments. The discovery and publication of such texts, beginning in the early nineteenth century, has transformed our engagement with the ancient past. Careful work of this kind, for example, continues to modify our understanding of the world of classical Athens — a community that produced many documents, and that was located among hills offering an abundance of excellent marble on which such documents could easily be inscribed.
Neural networks overtake humans in Gran Turismo racing game As a result, the study of the ancient world, which was initially focused almost entirely on literary texts, has expanded to engage with a wide range of sources, from shopping lists to poetry. Inscriptions can throw up new information at any moment, illuminating domestic life, the economy or politics, and requiring constant reassessment of what we think we know. Such challenging data might come from newly excavated discoveries (which is what grabs headlines), or from reanalysis of material we thought we understood, using tools such as Ithaca.
Ithaca’s potential for discovery is clear; it is not about displacing diagnostic expertise, but turbo-charging it. It is easy for our hopes and expectations to skew our vision, but this tool approaches any fragment of text without human prejudice. It can work consistently across texts, whether they are of evident importance or seemingly insignificant. Then, crucially, it offers not a fixed answer for what the text corresponding to missing gaps might be, but rather a range of answers ranked by their probability. The stated aim of the project is “to maximize the collaborative potential between historians and deep learning”. The scholar is not displaced; instead, Ithaca acts like a bloodhound, finding the trail for the scholar, but not making the final decisions.
We use the language of teaching and learning when describing the development of an AI tool. Teaching forces us to analyse and explain what we do; this is precisely the process we engage in when we aim to pass on our skills and accumulated knowledge to the next generation. Ithaca has been built on the training set that scholarship provides, and extends the existing principles of analysis. Confronting and working with such a diagnostic tool will produce important new knowledge, but it should also help scholars to have a better understanding of their own intellectual processes. The use of AI should not render the scholar redundant, but should instead challenge their understanding of what they thought they knew.
Nature 603 , 235-236 (2022) doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-022-00641-2 References Assael, Y.
et al.
Nature 603 , 280–283 (2022).
Article Google Scholar Download references Reprints and Permissions Competing Interests The author declares no competing interests.
Related Articles Read the paper: Restoring and attributing ancient texts using deep neural networks Neural networks overtake humans in Gran Turismo racing game Neural interface translates thoughts into type See all News & Views Subjects Machine learning History Archaeology Latest on: Why the UK-led global AI summit is missing the point Editorial 31 OCT 23 How AI can help to save endangered species News 27 OCT 23 How robots can learn to follow a moral code Outlook 26 OCT 23 From the archive: Halloween horrors News & Views 31 OCT 23 From the archive: soap success, and Michael Faraday’s lecture tips News & Views 24 OCT 23 Meet the unsung scientists behind the Nobel for quantum dots News 18 OCT 23 Runes on Viking stones speak to an ancient queen’s power Research Highlight 13 OCT 23 AI reads text from ancient Herculaneum scroll for the first time News 12 OCT 23 Evidence for the earliest structural use of wood at least 476,000 years ago Article 20 SEP 23 Jobs [DGIST] The second half of 2023 Tenure-Track Faculty Public Invitation South Korea (KR) DGIST Principle Investigator and Joint Recruitment Position-Postdoc The Center for Evolutionary & Organismal Biology invites applications from evolutionary scientists for All ranks.
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China Center for Evolutionary & Organismal Biology, Zhejiang University Tenure-track Faculty Positions in Particle Physics and Cosmology Faculty Positions in Particle Physics and Cosmology Hong Kong (HK) Department of Physics, The Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) Assistant/Associate Professor Center for Virology and Vaccine Research (CVVR) at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) is seeking Assistant or Associate Professor.
Boston, Massachusetts (US) Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel to the Global Environment Facility Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel to the Global Environment Facility: Panel Member for Land Degradation Washington D.C. (US) Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF Related Articles Read the paper: Restoring and attributing ancient texts using deep neural networks Neural networks overtake humans in Gran Turismo racing game Neural interface translates thoughts into type See all News & Views Subjects Machine learning History Archaeology Sign up to Nature Briefing An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Close Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Close Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Explore content Research articles News Opinion Research Analysis Careers Books & Culture Podcasts Videos Current issue Browse issues Collections Subjects Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Subscribe Sign up for alerts RSS feed About the journal Journal Staff About the Editors Journal Information Our publishing models Editorial Values Statement Journal Metrics Awards Contact Editorial policies History of Nature Send a news tip Publish with us For Authors For Referees Language editing services Submit manuscript Search Quick links Explore articles by subject Find a job Guide to authors Editorial policies Nature ( Nature ) ISSN 1476-4687 (online) ISSN 0028-0836 (print) nature.com sitemap About Nature Portfolio About us Press releases Press office Contact us Discover content Journals A-Z Articles by subject Nano Protocol Exchange Nature Index Publishing policies Nature portfolio policies Open access Author & Researcher services Reprints & permissions Research data Language editing Scientific editing Nature Masterclasses Live Expert Trainer-led workshops Research Solutions Libraries & institutions Librarian service & tools Librarian portal Open research Recommend to library Advertising & partnerships Advertising Partnerships & Services Media kits Branded content Career development Nature Careers Nature Conferences Nature events Regional websites Nature Africa Nature China Nature India Nature Italy Nature Japan Nature Korea Nature Middle East Privacy Policy Use of cookies Your privacy choices/Manage cookies Legal notice Accessibility statement Terms & Conditions Your US state privacy rights © 2023 Springer Nature Limited
