old id = 45
AI could help us to work out what psychedelic drugs to do our brains by analyzing the words used in trip reports | MIT Technology Review
2022
https://www.technologyreview.com/2022/03/16/1047350/what-do-psychedelic-drugs-do-to-our-brains-ai-could-help-us-find-out

Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts What do psychedelic drugs do to our brains? AI could help us find out The words people used to describe their trip experiences could lead to better drugs to treat mental illness.
By Jessica Hamzelou archive page Ms Tech | Unsplash Psychedelic drugs have long been touted as possible treatments for mental-health disorders like depression and PTSD. But very little is really known about what these substances actually do to our brains—and it can be hard to find out. Understanding how they work could help unlock their potential.
Some scientists are using AI to figure it out. Researchers at McGill University in Montreal are among those using natural language processing—the technique that allows voice assistants or search engines to work — to study written “trip reports” of drug users’ experiences. The work could shed light on how hallucinogens trigger specific mental states, whether that be euphoria, anxiety, or a sense of being at one with the world.
Danilo Bzdok, who co-led the research, hopes it will aid in the design of new drugs for mental health disorders. “It’s the largest study [of its kind] on psychedelics of all time,” he says.
Randomized clinical trials, which involve giving some participants a drug, others a placebo, and comparing the effects of both, are considered the gold standard in such studies.
But such trials are slow and expensive, and tend to involve only a small number of participants. “[It takes] multiple years, costs a seven-digit amount of money, [and] the ethics approvals take forever,” says Bzdok.
Related Story Researchers are learning more about how therapy works by examining the language therapists use with clients. It could lead to more people getting better, and staying better.
Instead, he and his colleagues at SUNY Downstate Health Sciences University in New York City and the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard in Cambridge, Massachusetts, used natural language processing to assess 6,850 written accounts of hallucinogenic drug use. Each account was written by a person who took one of 27 drugs—including ketamine, MDMA, LSD and psilocin—in a real-world setting rather than as part of a lab-based experiment. The accounts were accessed from the website of Erowid , a member-supported drug information organization.
The team then integrated this data with records of which receptors in the brain each drug is known to interact with. Together, these steps allow the team to identify which neurotransmitter receptors are linked to words associated with specific drug experiences.
For example, words linked to mystical experiences, such as “space,” “universe,” “consciousness,” “dimension,” and “breakthrough” were associated with drugs that bind to specific dopamine, serotonin, and opioid receptors.
Bzdok says the approach could provide new starting points for drug development. In theory, drugs that are designed to target these receptors should elicit specific aspects of psychedelic drug experiences, says Bzdok, whose work was published today in the journal Science Advances.
Frederick Barrett, a psychedelics neuroscientist at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, isn’t wholly convinced. “Folks don’t always know [what drug they’re taking],” he says. “Doses are not always well calibrated in the real world, and there’s a lot more variation that goes into real-world experiences than it may be possible to even fully recognize.” Bzdok’s approach is similar to that taken by MindState Design Labs , a biotech company aiming to identify drugs that trigger beneficial mental states. The company’s ultimate goal is the development of new treatments for mental-health disorders. “I think it’s a great paper,” says Dillan DiNardo, company CEO. But the company’s approach will focus more on individual receptors rather than groups of receptors, he says.
The problem is that no one really knows which aspects of psychedelic experiences are beneficial to mental health.
A clinical trial published last year , for example, suggested that MDMA was useful for some people with severe PTSD. But that doesn’t mean that people who take MDMA recreationally will be protected from developing the disorder.
And while it’s intuitive to think that drug experiences rich in positive emotions will help people feel better, some people find that experiencing negative emotions like anxiety and grief help them confront their trauma, says Barrett.
The use of trip reports is valuable, and complements traditional work, he says. But he adds that “anything generated from this analysis would still have to be validated and verified within carefully controlled clinical trials or other experiments.” Correction: This article has been updated to reflect the contributions of all study authors.
hide by Jessica Hamzelou Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Think that your plastic is being recycled? Think again.
Douglas Main 15 Climate Tech Companies to Watch Amy Nordrum Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Minds of machines: The great AI consciousness conundrum Philosophers, cognitive scientists, and engineers are grappling with what it would take for AI to become conscious.
By Grace Huckins archive page Generative AI deployment: Strategies for smooth scaling Our global poll examines key decision points for putting AI to use in the enterprise.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
