old id = 1190
Department Of Computer Science | Makerere University
2022
https://cs.mak.ac.ug/news/view/20

Makerere University Department of Computer Science Home About Department Overview Contact Department Faculty Administrative Staff Research Research Groups & Centers Flagship Research Projects Admissions General Information Deadlines Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduates Visting CS Department Curriculum Current Curriculum(V2021) Old Curriculum(V2017) News &Events Funding & Scholarships New Scholarships DeepMind Scholarships UW<>Mak Fellowships Scholars Notice Board Graduation List Admission List Timetables Results Feedback FAQs News News Details Six New DeepMind scholarships at Makerere University By: Administrator | March 18, 2022 DeepMind supports the establishment of master’s scholarships to study artificial intelligence at Makerere University.
Makerere University and DeepMind are excited to announce six (6) new Master’s scholarships in the field of Machine Learning for the academic year 2022/2023. The scholarships will support students who wish to study MSc. Computer Science programme (Track: AI and Data Science) taught in the Department of Computer Science at Makerere University. The new scholarships are part of the renewed collaboration that started in 2021/22 where four scholarships were awarded. The scholarships will be open to students from Uganda, other East African countries, or International students from a Sub-Saharan African country. The scholarship package will include full financial support for tuition, stipend, equipment, AI conference participation and mentorship. International students will also be eligible for a relocation grant to move to Makerere to begin their studies.
Makerere University will join other leading universities in partnering with DeepMind to offer scholarships, including Stellenbosch University in South Africa and international partners, such as the Universities of Cambridge and Oxford, University College London and Imperial College in London.
Figure: Ongoing AI Research at Makerere University: Automated diagnosis of crop diseases using machine learning.
Engineer Bainomugisha, Associate Professor and Chair of the Department of Computer Science at Makerere University, said “We are delighted that DeepMind has provided funding to support graduate training in AI and Data Science at Makerere University. The Department of Computer Science is committed to providing relevant skills in AI and machine learning. The scholarships will complement our ongoing efforts in AI training and research with emphasis on its applications to unique African challenges in the sectors of health, agriculture, and environment, among others. The scholarships will contribute to the growth of the African AI ecosystem.” Obum Ekeke, Global Lead, University Relations & Education Partnerships at DeepMind, added, “We are very proud to be further expanding our scholarships in Africa with Makerere university, and look forward to welcoming new African scholars to our programme. DeepMind’s education efforts recognise that talent must be nurtured in regions which can bring a diverse range of perspectives into AI research, to ensure AI is a technology that can bring benefits for all.” About DeepMind DeepMind is a multidisciplinary team of scientists, engineers, machine learning experts and more, working together to research and build safe AI systems that learn how to solve problems and advance scientific discovery for all.
Best-known for developing AlphaGo, the first program to beat a world champion at the complex game of Go, DeepMind has published over 1000 research papers - including more than a dozen in Nature and Science - and achieved breakthrough results in many challenging AI domains from StarCraft II to protein folding.
DeepMind was founded in London in 2010, and joined forces with Google in 2014 to accelerate its work. Since then, its community has expanded to include teams in Alberta, Montreal, Paris, and Mountain View in California.
http://deepmind.com/scholarships About the Department of Computer Science at Makerere University The Department of Computer Science is one of the four Departments in the School of Computing and IT of the College of Computing and Information Sciences at Makerere University. The Department is recognized as one of the top Computer Science departments in Africa. Faculty and students in the Department are undertaking innovative research in areas such as machine learning, computer vision, natural language processing, and software systems security. The Department of Computer Science hosts the Makerere AI research lab that specialises in AI research and its applications to real world challenges including the automated diagnosis of crop and human diseases, auction design for mobile commodity markets, Google-funded research on monitoring and analysis of air pollution and traffic patterns in African cities.
https://cs.mak.ac.ug Eligible students for the scholarships need to be admitted to the MSc Computer Science programme. Applicants for the Msc Computer Science at Makerere University should look out for a call for graduate admissions for 2022/23 around the end of March/April 2022 (tentative) at the Directorate of Research and Graduate Training website.
 For more information about the DeepMind scholarships please contact cs@cis.mak.ac.ug The scholarship announcement will be published around June/July 2022 on the Department and University websites. Applicants interested in DeepMind scholarships need to first apply for admission to MSc Computer Science.
Latest News & Events 21 Aug Faculty member of the computer science department wins grant 21 Aug Head of Makerere Artificial Intelligence lab Wins Grant 15 Feb Advertisement – Three CS Graduate Fellows Needed 18 Mar Six New DeepMind scholarships at Makerere University 07 Jun Mak <> UW PhD exchange program Launched Contact Us [javascript protected email address] Academics & Research People OTHER USEFUL LINKS © 2023 - Makerere University Department of Computer Science
