old id = 2013
Neural networks overtake humans in Gran Turismo racing game
2022
https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-022-00304-2

Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript.
Advertisement View all journals Search Log in Explore content About the journal Publish with us Subscribe Sign up for alerts RSS feed nature news & views article Download PDF NEWS AND VIEWS 09 February 2022 Neural networks overtake humans in Gran Turismo racing game J. Christian Gerdes 0 J. Christian Gerdes J. Christian Gerdes is in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Twitter Facebook Email You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF A modern Formula 1 race is a breathtaking display of engineering precision. Yet the popularity of the sport arguably has less to do with the performance of the cars than with the skill and daring displayed by the drivers as they push those cars to the limit. Success on the race track has been a celebrated human achievement for more than a century. Will it now become a similar triumph for artificial intelligence (AI)? Writing in Nature , Wurman et al.
1 take a step in this direction by introducing Gran Turismo (GT) Sophy, a neural-network driver capable of outperforming the best human players of the video game Gran Turismo.
Read the paper: Outracing champion Gran Turismo drivers with deep reinforcement learning The objective in racing is easily defined: if you complete the circuit in less time than your competitors, you win. However, achieving this goal involves a complicated battle with physics, because negotiating the track requires careful use of the frictional force between the tyre and the road, and this force is limited. Using some of that friction for braking, for instance, leaves less force available for rounding a corner.
More specifically, each tyre can produce a frictional force proportional to the vertical force, or load, that connects it to the road. As the car accelerates, the load shifts to the rear tyres, leaving less frictional force for the front tyres. This can induce understeer, in which the steering wheel cannot generate more cornering force and effectively becomes a hand rest as the car ploughs out of the turn. By contrast, when the car brakes, the load shifts to the front of the car. This can lead to oversteer, meaning that the rear tyres lose traction and the car spins. Add in a complicated track topography, and the complexities of tuning load transfer with the suspension of the vehicle, and the challenges of racing become obvious.
To win the race, the driver must choose trajectories that allow the car to stay within these ever-changing friction limits as much as it physically can. Brake too early going into a turn and your car is slow, losing time. Brake too late and you won’t have enough cornering force to hold your desired racing line as you near the tightest part of the turn. Brake too hard and you might induce a spin. Professional racing drivers are eerily good at finding and maintaining the limits of their car, lap after lap, for an entire race.
As complex as the handling limits of a car can be, they are well described by physics, and it therefore stands to reason that they could be calculated or learnt. Indeed, the automated Audi TTS, Shelley, was capable of generating lap times comparable to those of a champion amateur driver by using a simple model of physics 2.
 By contrast, GT Sophy doesn’t make explicit calculations based on physics. Instead, it learns through a neural-network model. However, given the track and vehicle motion information available to Shelley and GT Sophy, it isn’t too surprising that GT Sophy can put in a fast lap with enough training data.
What really stands out is GT Sophy’s performance against human drivers in a head-to-head competition. Far from using a lap-time advantage to outlast opponents, GT Sophy simply outraces them. Through the training process, GT Sophy learnt to take different lines through the corners in response to different conditions. In one case, two human drivers attempted to block the preferred path of two GT Sophy cars, yet the AI succeeded in finding two different trajectories that overcame this block and allowed the AI’s cars to pass (Fig. 1).
Figure 1 | Neural-network drivers outperform human players.
Wurman et al.
1 report a neural-network algorithm — called GT Sophy — that is capable of winning against the best human players of the video game Gran Turismo.
 When two human drivers attempted to block the preferred path of two GT Sophy cars, the algorithm found two ways to overtake them. (Adapted from Fig. 3d of ref. 1.) GT Sophy also proved to be capable of executing a classic manoeuvre on a simulation of a famous straight of the Circuit de la Sarthe, the track of the car race 24 Hours of Le Mans. The move involves quickly driving out of the wake of the vehicle ahead to increase the drag on the lead car in a bid to overtake it. GT Sophy learnt this trick through training, on the basis of many examples of this exact scenario — although the same could be said for every human racing-car driver capable of this feat. Outracing human drivers so skilfully in a head-to-head competition represents a landmark achievement for AI.
The implications of Wurman and colleagues’ work go well beyond video-game supremacy. As companies work to perfect fully automated vehicles that can deliver goods or passengers, there is an ongoing debate as to how much of the software should use neural networks and how much should be based on physics alone. In general, the neural network is the undisputed champion when it comes to perceiving and identifying objects in the surrounding environment 3.
 However, trajectory planning has remained the province of physics and optimization. Even vehicle manufacturer Tesla, which uses neural networks as the core of autonomous driving, has revealed that its neural networks feed into an optimization-based trajectory planner (see go.nature.com/3kgkpua ). But GT Sophy’s success on the track suggests that neural networks might one day have a larger role in the software of automated vehicles than they do today.
AI system outperforms humans in designing floorplans for microchips So, will the Formula 1 battles between Lewis Hamilton and Max Verstappen give way to contests between GT Sophy variants? After all, the physics of Gran Turismo is a close match for real racing cars.
Gran Turismo ’s director, Kazunori Yamauchi, even used the video game to find ways of tweaking his real racing car to overcome a recurring problem that he was having when taking a corner at the Nürburgring, a Grand Prix track in Germany that has the nickname The Green Hell (see go.nature.com/3tw22aa ). It also helped me to familiarize myself with Laguna Seca Raceway before I started racing school.
Still, some challenges remain in moving from the console to the track. For example, GT Sophy has not yet learnt that it is sometimes better to follow the car ahead to make up time, instead of dogfighting at every corner. Of course, Wurman et al.
report GT Sophy’s rookie season, and there is no obvious reason why such a strategy could not be learnt with greater experience, too.
More challenging might be the variation that occurs with each lap. Unlike in the Gran Turismo races used by Wurman and co-workers, the condition of the tyres on real racing cars changes from lap to lap, and human drivers must adapt to such changes throughout the race. Would GT Sophy be able to do the same with more data? And where would such data come from? It’s easy to run simulations, but no racing car in existence has completed enough laps to train GT Sophy in its current form, much less an AI that could handle tyre variability. However, there is evidence that neural networks can capture changing vehicle dynamics on different road surfaces 2 , so perhaps Verstappen and Hamilton should keep one eye on their rear-view mirrors.
Nature 602 , 213-214 (2022) doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-022-00304-2 References Wurman, P. R.
et al.
Nature 602 , 223–228 (2022).
Article Google Scholar Spielberg, N. A., Brown, M., Kapania, N. R., Kegelman, J. C. & Gerdes, J. C.
Sci. Robot.
4 , eaaw1975 (2019).
Article PubMed Google Scholar Fujiyoshi, H., Hirakawa, T. & Yamashita, T.
IATSS Res.
43 , 244–252 (2019).
Article Google Scholar Download references Reprints and Permissions Competing Interests Kazunori Yamauchi, the director of Gran Turismo, visited the Center for Automotive Research at Stanford in 2018 to give one of our Open Garage talks. The team at Polyphony Digital gave away several copies of the game, a racing wheel and a Sony PS4, together with the talk, and left consoles and wheels at the laboratory for students to use.
Related Articles Read the paper: Outracing champion Gran Turismo drivers with deep reinforcement learning AI system outperforms humans in designing floorplans for microchips Learning to see and act See all News & Views Subjects Machine learning Computer science Latest on: Why the UK-led global AI summit is missing the point Editorial 31 OCT 23 How AI can help to save endangered species News 27 OCT 23 How robots can learn to follow a moral code Outlook 26 OCT 23 Garbage in, garbage out: mitigating risks and maximizing benefits of AI in research Comment 31 OCT 23 Why the UK-led global AI summit is missing the point Editorial 31 OCT 23 How big quantum computers could keep their qubits under control Research Highlight 26 OCT 23 Jobs [DGIST] The second half of 2023 Tenure-Track Faculty Public Invitation South Korea (KR) DGIST Principle Investigator and Joint Recruitment Position-Postdoc The Center for Evolutionary & Organismal Biology invites applications from evolutionary scientists for All ranks.
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China Center for Evolutionary & Organismal Biology, Zhejiang University Tenure-track Faculty Positions in Particle Physics and Cosmology Faculty Positions in Particle Physics and Cosmology Hong Kong (HK) Department of Physics, The Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) Assistant/Associate Professor Center for Virology and Vaccine Research (CVVR) at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) is seeking Assistant or Associate Professor.
Boston, Massachusetts (US) Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel to the Global Environment Facility Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel to the Global Environment Facility: Panel Member for Land Degradation Washington D.C. (US) Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF Related Articles Read the paper: Outracing champion Gran Turismo drivers with deep reinforcement learning AI system outperforms humans in designing floorplans for microchips Learning to see and act See all News & Views Subjects Machine learning Computer science Sign up to Nature Briefing An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Close Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Close Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Explore content Research articles News Opinion Research Analysis Careers Books & Culture Podcasts Videos Current issue Browse issues Collections Subjects Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Subscribe Sign up for alerts RSS feed About the journal Journal Staff About the Editors Journal Information Our publishing models Editorial Values Statement Journal Metrics Awards Contact Editorial policies History of Nature Send a news tip Publish with us For Authors For Referees Language editing services Submit manuscript Search Quick links Explore articles by subject Find a job Guide to authors Editorial policies Nature ( Nature ) ISSN 1476-4687 (online) ISSN 0028-0836 (print) nature.com sitemap About Nature Portfolio About us Press releases Press office Contact us Discover content Journals A-Z Articles by subject Nano Protocol Exchange Nature Index Publishing policies Nature portfolio policies Open access Author & Researcher services Reprints & permissions Research data Language editing Scientific editing Nature Masterclasses Live Expert Trainer-led workshops Research Solutions Libraries & institutions Librarian service & tools Librarian portal Open research Recommend to library Advertising & partnerships Advertising Partnerships & Services Media kits Branded content Career development Nature Careers Nature Conferences Nature events Regional websites Nature Africa Nature China Nature India Nature Italy Nature Japan Nature Korea Nature Middle East Privacy Policy Use of cookies Your privacy choices/Manage cookies Legal notice Accessibility statement Terms & Conditions Your US state privacy rights © 2023 Springer Nature Limited
