old id = 2147
Waverly Labs | Home
2022
https://www.waverlylabs.com

Interpretation and translation tools for teams and professionals.
Featured In Getting lost in translation is a thing of the past.
As experts in language translation, we combine the latest advances in speech recognition, machine translation, and wearable technology to help people converse without language barriers.
Customer stories How a little earbud is changing life for foreign-born kids at Bergen County school “It was emotional, … There are no boundaries now. This will open up so many doors.” Business is Booming “They have been AMAZING in helping us communicate with Japanese, Spanish, Italian & German clients.” - J.F.
Travel Industry Game-Changer “I just received my earpieces today. OMG they are amazing! … We own a travel company … This could totally be a game changer when I lead tours abroad” Breaking Down Barriers In Healthcare “I had bought this so my daughter who can not speak english well could talk with her neurologist in Canada regarding her brain cancer. Her doctor only spoke english.” - C.R.
Bringing Families Closer Together “Being able to speak to my girlfriend’s mother for the first time has broken down walls I never thought possible. From the bottom of my heart thank you!” Inspired by real life experiences Founded in 2014, Waverly Labs is at the forefront of voice and language products for professionals and teams. Between 2016–2020 we introduced Pilot Smart Earbuds and Ambassador Interpreter, the world's first earbud translation products.
Now we’ve developed a full suite of voice and translation solutions engineered for professionals across various industries including education, hospitality, business, and events.
Not sure which solution is right for you? Latest news from Waverly Labs Translation Apps Can Make Classes More Engaging, Inclusive Waverly Labs Ambassador Review: Real-time translator yay or nay? Brooklyn’s Best Electronics Startups: Innovating for the Future Extrapolations S01E01: Omar Tries To Bargain With The World Council For Water TechCrunch: Waverly Labs launches a translation app called Forum with support for 20 languages VentureBeat: Waverly Labs launches Forum app for real-time translation Waverly Labs launches FORUM, a groundbreaking interpretation app worthy of a standing ovation No More Language Barriers: Inside The Tech Behind The Ambassador With CEO Andrew Ochoa Sabah Al Khair Ya Arab Demonstrates Ambassador Interpreter Live on Air Un Dispositivo Ayuda a Los Estudiantes Que no Hablan Inglés con Traducciones Simultáneas Grant Lets NJ Teacher Communicate with Students Through Translating Earbuds Waverly Labs Interview, New CES 2022 Products, Full-Service Translation Hardware How-to Geek's Best of CES 2022 Award Winners: What We're Excited About Waverly Labs Brings Its Translation to Retail Transactions with Subtitles Waverly Labs Ambassador Interpreter Aims to Upgrage Translation Indiegogo and Equity Crowdfunding: A Beautiful Pairing for Entrepreneurs It's Time to Rethink Black Friday 2021 Holiday Gift Guide The Ambassador Interpreter Will Translate Languages For You UNBOXING – THE AMBASSADOR TRANSLATORS Review: Waverly Labs Ambassador Interpreter Say Goodbye to Language Barriers with 'Ambassador' Technology Startup Waverly Labs Draws Crowdfunding Support for Language Translation Device 7 Highly-Funded Equity Crowdfunding Opportunities on StartEngine Waverly Labs Begins Production of Ambassador Interpreter The Waverly Labs Ambassador Interpreter — Wow The Top 6 Ways to Learn a New Language With Technology Ambassador Interpreter by Waverly Labs Hands-on Review: Google Translate VS Dedicated Translation Headphone English Only? Use Translation Gadgets to Speak Different Languages Waverly Labs Ambassador Interpreter Review: The world just got smaller Ambassador Translator review: Over-ear comfort and accurate translation The Best of the 2020 CES Show (at 13:05 mark) Can computer translators ever beat speaking a foreign tongue? Tech for Change: New gadgets at CES 2021 finally bridge the language barrier Translate this: How real-time translation breaks down barriers when you don't speak the language Cómo la tecnología puede hacer que ya no tengamos que aprender inglés The evolution of language translation in a small package Technology Goes From Science Fiction To Nonfiction (at 2:47 mark) The future of augmented reality might be in your ear Desde el chino hasta el italiano: el dispositivo que traduce en tiempo real cerca de 20 idiomas Translation gadgets in 2020 are nearly as good as Babel Fish #CES2020: Live From The Show Floor (at 1:27 mark) THE BEST OF CES 2020 Converse in Any Language With the Ambassador Interpreter From Waverly Labs Instant translation earbuds aim to bring one of the best 'Hitchhiker's Guide' inventions to life Ambassador & MedWand Dubbed 20th Annual Last Gadget Standing at CES 2020 A look at the new technology being unveiled at CES in Las Vegas this week Waverly Labs brings Ambassador, a real-time interpreter, to CES 2020 Video: Smart translator interprets 20 languages via over-the-ear audio Waverly Labs is finally putting its $199 Ambassador translator on sale in April Waverly Labs' new wearable translator arrives in April at $200 No More Getting Lost in Translation, Thanks to the Waverly Ambassador A machine to break down all language barriers The Latest in Translation Devices Lost in Translation? Listen & Converse with Waverly Labs’ Ambassador Waverly Labs Ambassador claims to be smartest wearable translator yet, at $99 Waverly Labs returns with Ambassador - a cheaper, smarter language translator Is the era of artificial speech translation upon us? [CES 2019] Bientôt plus besoin d’apprendre les langues, les traducteurs vocaux en temps réel arrivent ! [CES 2019] Traduction dans l’oreillette : une voix d’avenir pour les touristes Two Tech Entrepreneurs Survive AARP ‘Shark Tank’ at CES Vicepresidente de productos de waverly labs da a conocer los audífonos traductores Translating AI into the language of business Can Smart Earbuds Instantly Translate Foreign Speech? From translating hearing aids to sign-language gloves, amazing assistive tech SOON, TALKING TO STRANGERS WILL BE EVEN EASIER Waverly Labs Pilot review Waverly Labs talks Pilot rollout and why it isn't scared of Google just yet How translation apps iron out embarrassing gaffes I went on a date wearing translation earbuds and it was wildly awkward In depth look at current advances in artificial intelligence These earphones can translate live speech into five different languages Waverly Labs' Pilot earpiece promises to translate languages in real time Don't panic! $249 'BabelFish' Pilot earphones can translate foreign languages in real-time The Pilot, l’oreillette connectée qui traduit en temps réel Pilot, el auricular inteligente que traduce conversaciones en (casi) tiempo real IZUM KOJI ĆE PROMIJENITI SVIJET Dosad je ova slušalica bila moguća samo u 'Zvjezdanim stazama', od svibnja ćete je za oko 2000 kuna moći imati i vi! Pilot, o fone de ouvido inteligente que traduz frases (quase) em tempo real 有了这个耳机,无论走到世界哪里都能听懂对方语言!神器啊~ Startup norte-americana cria fone de ouvido que traduz diversos idiomas Metro рассказывает о гаджетах, которых можно ожидать в 2017 году Pilot, the real-time universal translator, is straight out of a sci-fi novel Waverly Labs: Breaking Down Language Barriers to Improve How Healthcare Providers Deliver Care באבל פישי: מהפכה בעולם התרגום או עוד הבטחה ריקה? The Smart Earpiece Could Help Break Down Language Barriers Wearable translation device promises a science-fiction future, almost What to Expect From Your Instant, In-Ear Language Translator El dispositivo que traduce todos los idiomas en tiempo real In-Ear Device That Translates Foreign Languages In Real Time This translation earpiece allows you to have a conversation with someone speaking a language you don’t understand Языковые границы окончательно стираютсяПосмотреть полностью 6 New, Cool Travel Products You’ll Want for Your Next Vacation Can This Device Be the Universal Translator? Pilot, el audífono que traduce a tiempo real Could Two People Use Real-Time Translation to Fall in Love? Pilot Bluetooth earpiece crowdfunds the dream of universal, instant language translation Olvídate de aprender idiomas con The Pilot Une oreillette qui traduit les conversations en temps réel The Pilot, des oreillettes de traduction quasiment en temps réel Our translation solutions Essential Essential Essential Sign up for news, updates, and information on our epic releases And don't miss out on a 10% discount code for your first order of our award winning interpreter earbuds.
