old id = 2338
5 Best Gaming PCs We've Reviewed (2023): Dell, MSI, Origin, and More | WIRED
2022
https://www.wired.com/gallery/best-gaming-desktop-pcs

Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Best Pumpkin Carving Kits How to Use Dall-E 3 in ChatGPT Best Steam Deck Accessories Beginner Birding Gear How to Use Your Phone Addiction for Good Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Jaina Grey Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Desktop Gaming PCs Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Best Compact Desktop $2,202 at Amazon Sleek and Stylish $1,299 at Dell Bespoke Beauty $2,257 at Origin PC Personalized Power $1,699 at Maingear Consoles like the Nintendo Switch or PlayStation 5 may be great for gaming, but they're hard to come by.
 Fortunately, a good old-fashioned gaming PC is always an option. If you want to get access to the massive library of games on stores like Steam and Epic, we've got some of the best gaming PCs collected here.
Since gaming desktops can be upgraded more frequently than consoles, they can deliver high-fidelity visuals unrivaled by most other systems. Paired with the right peripherals—a quick and responsive mouse , a mechanical keyboard , and a good headset , not to mention some of the best PC games —a gaming PC can quickly become the place you spend most of your free time.
Choosing a gaming desktop can be incredibly complex, though. There are several factors to consider, including specs, what kinds of games you're going to play, and how many thousand RGB lights you want on it.
Building your own PC is also a great option if you’re handy and want to upgrade it over time, but for everyone else, these are the best gaming desktops we've tested.
Updated June 2022: We've added the Maingear Vybe system, updated the Alienware Aurora R13, and removed the Acer Predator Orion 3000.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: MSI Best Compact Desktop MSI Trident X Sometimes you just need something small and speedy. For anyone who doesn't have the extra space for a gaming setup or the desire to dedicate a corner of your hangar bay to housing a big old desk, look no further than the MSI Trident X. The Trident is about the size of a standard game console, like an Xbox Series X or the PlayStation 5 (OK, maybe not that big.) It's the perfect size to slip beside your TV or into an entertainment center. Despite its compactness, the Trident X is a powerful gaming machine that can play most anything without trouble.
As listed on Amazon, the Trident comes with a GeForce RTX 2070 graphics card and 32 gigabytes of RAM, which should be enough horsepower for most of the latest games.
$2,202 at Amazon $2,399 at Microsoft Store Photograph: Dell Sleek and Stylish Alienware Aurora R13 Alienware's design language used to be all about making computers look like angular space artifacts; cursed objects half-hidden beneath the sands of Mars, humming with power. More recent Alienware products, like the Aurora R13, embrace a smoother, more organic-looking exterior, and I couldn't be happier.
The Aurora R13 is a powerful gaming desktop, but it's also a conversation piece. Its smooth, rounded exterior makes it look like a big speaker or air purifier, and I mean that in the best way. Those design flourishes aren't just for show—that sleek chassis is designed to maximize heat dissipation and ensure that cool air is well distributed among internal components.
You want at least an Intel Core i7 processor (i3 and i5 are weaker). It will also come with a graphics card from the RTX 30XX lineup, which will give you ample power for your money.
$1,299 at Dell Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear The Best iPad to Buy (and a Few to Avoid) Brenda Stolyar Photograph: Origin Bespoke Beauty Origin PC Millennium Visiting Origin's website to shop for a PC is like walking into a sleek spaceport with merchants from all over the galaxy. There is a wealth of customization options at your fingertips, and each PC is built to order, so you can be sure you're getting exactly what you want. On top of that, the Origin Millennium is a remarkably solid machine that's built to last. It arrives at your doorstep in a crate worthy of the Ark of the Covenant. Origin's attention to detail makes it one of the best gaming rigs money can buy.
Origin's configuration is super comprehensive. We suggest an AMD Ryzen build, starting with a Ryzen 5 5600X processor and GeForce RTX 3060 graphics card. If you don't have strong opinions on them, the default motherboard and fan options are fine.
$2,257 at Origin PC Photograph: Maingear Personalized Power Maingear Vybe Maingear's customizable machines are some of the best blends of prebuilt and DIY gaming PCs. You can pick from a selection of prebuilt arrangements or customize every part. The company will then ship the PC out to you, fully assembled, with what we found to be impressive cable management and plenty of stylish LEDs.
Unlike many prebuilt PCs, however, Maingear's are still built with standard parts, so you can upgrade them later. We tested a fully tricked-out $7,000 machine with an RTX 3090 Ti, and it chewed through fast-paced games like Doom: Eternal.
 Normally, paying such a premium would make us worry about longevity, but knowing parts can be upgraded makes it easier to customize a build and not worry that it will be useless in five years.
$1,699 at Maingear Photograph: NZXT A Custom PC on Rails NZXT BLD One of the best ways to get a great gaming PC is to build one yourself, but if you're not up for learning how to put it together—and we can't blame you, it's not simple —then NZXT offers the next best thing. The company's BLD gaming PCs let you pick the parts you'd like in your gaming rig, using handy wizards that will give you an idea of what your new machine will be capable of.
You can see frame-rate estimates for popular games like Fortnite or Minecraft that will update based on which graphics card, processor type, or other components you choose. This can help you decide on the right parts even if you're not sure what they all mean. Once you've chosen your build, the company will put it together and ship it to you.
Buy at NZXT Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear The Best iPad to Buy (and a Few to Avoid) Brenda Stolyar Photograph: Nvidia Do It Yourself How to Find a Good Deal Set a Budget: If you're new to PC gaming, it's easy to get overwhelmed by the price of entry. You don't need to spend $2,000; PC gaming is just as much about deal hunting as it is about, you know, playing games. You can put together a solid rig for $700 to $1,000. We have a full guide on how to build a PC if you're ready to take the plunge.
Choose a Graphics Card: For a gaming desktop, your graphics card is your most important piece of hardware, but that doesn’t mean you need the best one. An older GeForce GTX 10XX will be OK for some games (and possibly easier to find), but the newer GeForce RTX 20XX will handle modern games more easily. The GeForce RTX 30XX are more future-proof, but it’s nearly impossible to find at MSRP right now. Fun fact: One of the most reliable ways to get an RTX 30XX is to buy a PC with the card already inside, remove it, and sell the remaining parts.
For most people building a gaming PC, the 10-series will do for shoestring-budget machines, and 20-series cards will get you to the middle of the pack. Unfortunately, tricking out a high-end PC right now is a chaotic market due to supply chain shortages.
Buy Writer and Reviewer X Instagram Product Writer and Reviewer X Topics Desktops Shopping buying guides video games gaming tips Nena Farrell Henri Robbins Christopher Null Jaina Grey Eric Ravenscraft Louryn Strampe Simon Hill Adrienne So WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart coupon: $10 Off any size order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% off any size order + free delivery with DoorDash promo code Finish Line Coupon Take $10 Off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón
