old id = 198
This Week’s Awesome Tech Stories From Around the Web (Through February 26)
2022
https://singularityhub.com/2022/02/26/this-weeks-awesome-tech-stories-from-around-the-web-through-february-26

Topics AI Biotech Computing Space Energy Future Tech Robotics Science Experts Featured Experts Perspectives Books Events Videos Latest Series Interviews About Singularity About Programs Membership Experts Community Careers Subscribe Welcome! Search.
News and Insights from Singularity Group Search Subscribe to our newsletter Singularity Group Singularity Community Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube.
st0{fill:#FFFFFF;} .st1{fill:url(#SVGID_1_);} Singularity Hub News and Insights from Singularity Group Topics Experts Events Videos Search singularity group singularity community Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube.
st0{fill:#FFFFFF;} .st1{fill:url(#SVGID_1_);} Singularity Hub News and Insights from Singularity Group Topics Experts Events Videos Search This Week’s Awesome Tech Stories From Around the Web (Through February 26) By NEUROSCIENCE Does Life Flash Before Your Eyes? Brain Scan of Dying Man Suggests It’s Possible Nicola Davis | The Guardian “The team says analysis of recordings of the 30 seconds before and after the man’s heart stopped beating suggest that in his final moments he experienced changes in different types of brain waves, including alpha and gamma brain waves. …’Given that cross-coupling between alpha and gamma activity is involved in cognitive processes and memory recall in healthy subjects, it is intriguing to speculate that such activity could support a last ‘recall of life’ that may take place in the near-death state,’ the team [wrote in a journal article].” ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE A Meta Prototype Lets You Build Virtual Worlds by Describing Them Adi Robertson | The Verge “Meta is testing an artificial intelligence system that lets people build parts of virtual worlds by describing them, and CEO Mark Zuckerberg showed off a prototype at a live event today. Proof of the concept, called Builder Bot, could eventually draw more people into Meta’s Horizon ‘metaverse’ virtual reality experiences. It could also advance creative AI tech that powers machine-generated art.” HEALTH Gene-Edited Brain Organoids Are Unlocking the Secrets of Autism Amit Katwala | Wired “Organoids grown from stem cells donated by people with ASD have been used to study the condition in the past. But Arlotta and her team went a step further, as they describe in a paper published recently in the journal Nature.
 They created genetically modified organoids of the human cerebral cortex, each with a mutation in one of three genes thought to be linked to autism. The aim was to tease out exactly how these differences in DNA might contribute to the changes in brain structure and behavior that are the hallmarks of the condition.” GENETICS Massive New ‘Human Family Tree’ Includes 27 Million Ancestors George Dvorsky | Gizmodo “The network shows how individuals around the world are related to each other, and it predicts common ancestors, including when they lived and where they came from. It also models key events in human history, such as human migrations out of Africa and dispersals to other parts of the globe.” SCIENCE Any Single Galaxy Reveals the Composition of an Entire Universe Charlie Wood | Wired “…researchers have found that a machine learning algorithm can scrutinize a single simulated galaxy and predict the overall makeup of the digital universe in which it exists—a feat analogous to analyzing a random grain of sand under a microscope and working out the mass of Eurasia. The machines appear to have found a pattern that might someday allow astronomers to draw sweeping conclusions about the real cosmos merely by studying its elemental building blocks.” REGULATION China Is About to Regulate AI—and the World Is Watching Jennifer Conrad and Will Knight | Wired “The sweeping rules cover algorithms that set prices, control search results, recommend videos, and filter content. They will impose new curbs on major ride-hailing, ecommerce, streaming, and social media companies. The regulations will extend an extraordinary crackdown on China’s most popular and most valuable tech companies, which has included big fines and sidetracked stock offerings.” TRANSPORTATION Virgin Hyperloop Switches Focus From Passengers to Cargo as It Lays Off Half Its Staff James Vincent | The Verge “Moving cargo instead of people will simplify safety and regulatory burdens, according to DP World—an Emirati, state-owned logistics group that has a 76 percent stake in Virgin Hyperloop. ‘It’s abundantly clear that potential customers are interested in cargo, while passenger is somewhat farther away,’ DP World told the FT.
 ‘Focusing on pallets is easier to do—there is less risk for passengers and less of a regulatory process.’ i ” Image Credit: note thanun / Unsplash Tags Curation RELATED This Week’s Awesome Tech Stories From Around the Web (Through October 28) October 28, 2023 This Week’s Awesome Tech Stories From Around the Web (Through October 21) October 21, 2023 This Week’s Awesome Tech Stories From Around the Web (Through October 14) October 14, 2023 latest Like Humans, This Breakthrough AI Makes Concepts Out of the Words It Learns October 31, 2023 Why Google and Bing’s Embrace of Generative AI Could Upend the SEO Industry October 29, 2023 This Week’s Awesome Tech Stories From Around the Web (Through October 28) October 28, 2023 featured Carl Sagan Detected Life on Earth 30 Years Ago—Here’s Why His Experiment Still Matters Today October 26, 2023 Singularity Hub News and Insights from Singularity Group Singularity labs A 360 Singularity Hub About Creative Commons Pitch Us Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Singularity Group About Executive Program Custom Programs Podcasts Insights Blog Stay connected Facebook Instagram RSS Twitter Youtube Get the latest news from Singularity Hub! Sign Up Copyright © Singularity Group. All rights reserved.
