old id = 1227
Rich Sutton, PhD - Directory@UAlberta
1978
https://www.ualberta.ca/science/about-us/contact-us/faculty-directory/rich-sutton

Search Within Email & Apps Bear Tracks eClass Find a Person Maps Library ONEcard Folio The Quad New Trail YouAlberta Events Prospective Students Current Students Faculty + Staff Alumni + Friends Give to the U of A Careers Indigenous Initiatives Equity, Diversity, and Inclusivity COVID-19 Information HealthyU Essentials Search Advanced Departments Help Login Apps Directory Viewing Rich Sutton Rich Sutton, PhD Contact Professor, Faculty of Science - Computing Science Overview About Education B.A., Psychology, Stanford University, 1978 M.S., Computer Science, University of Massachusetts, 1980 Ph.D., Computer Science, University of Massachusetts, 1984 Chair Positions AITF Chair in Reinforcement Learning and Artificial Intelligence Research Areas Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning Reinforcement Learning Robotics Interests Reinforcement Learning, Foundational Issues in Artificial Intelligence, Animal Learning Theory.
Summary I am seeking to identify general computational principles underlying what we mean by intelligence and goal-directed behavior. I start with the interaction between the intelligent agent and its environment. Goals, choices, and sources of information are all defined in terms of this interaction. In some sense it is the only thing that is real, and from it all our sense of the world is created. How is this done? How can interaction lead to better behavior, better perception, better models of the world? What are the computational issues in doing this efficiently and in realtime? These are the sort of questions that I ask in trying to understand what it means to be intelligent, to predict and influence the world, to learn, perceive, act, and think.
In practice, I work primarily in reinforcement learning as an approach to artificial intelligence. I am exploring ways to represent a broad range of human knowledge in an empirical form--that is, in a form directly in terms of experience--and in ways of reducing the dependence on manual encoding of world state and knowledge.
Courses CMPUT 609 - Topics in Computing Science Browse more courses taught by Rich Sutton University of Alberta logo
